Epistemic integration and social segregation of AI
in neuroscience
Sylvain Fontaine1*, Floriana Gargiulo1, Michel Dubois1,
Paola Tubaro2
1GEMASS, CNRS-Sorbonne Universit´e, 59-61 rue Pouchet, 75017 Paris,
France.
2CREST, CNRS-IPP, 5 avenue Henry Le Chatelier, 91120 Palaiseau,
France.
*Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): sylvain.fontaine@cnrs.fr;
Abstract
In recent years, Artificial Intelligence (AI) shows a spectacular ability of insertion
inside a variety of disciplines which use it for scientific advancements and which
sometimes improve it for their conceptual and methodological needs. According
to the transverse science framework originally conceived by Shinn and Joerges,
AI can be seen as an instrument which is progressively acquiring a universal char-
acter through its diffusion across science. In this paper we address empirically
one aspect of this diffusion, namely the penetration of AI into a specific field of
research. Taking neuroscience as a case study, we conduct a scientometric analysis
of the development of AI in this field. We especially study the temporal egocentric
citation network around the articles included in this literature, their represented
journals and their authors linked together by a temporal collaboration network.
We find that AI is driving the constitution of a particular disciplinary ecosys-
tem in neuroscience which is distinct from other subfields, and which is gathering
atypical scientific profiles who are coming from neuroscience or outside it. More-
over we observe that this AI community in neuroscience is socially confined in a
specific subspace of the neuroscience collaboration network, which also publishes
in a small set of dedicated journals that are mostly active in AI research. Accord-
ing to these results, the diffusion of AI in a discipline such as neuroscience didn’t
really challenge its disciplinary orientations but rather induced the constitution
of a dedicated socio-cognitive environment inside this field.
Keywords: Science of science, Artificial Intelligence, neuroscience, research-technology
1
arXiv:2310.01046v2  [physics.soc-ph]  6 Mar 2024

1 Introduction
In recent years, Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been continuously spreading across
science. The associated worldwide scientific production and the amount of dedicated
funding programs for technological developments supported both by academia and
industry, are spectacularly growing (Baruffaldi et al., 2020; Gao & Wang, 2023;
Liu, Shapira, & Yue, 2021), and the outputs of such research are touching a vari-
ety of disciplines that are more and more citing it (Arencibia-Jorge, Vega-Almeida,
Jim´enez Andrade, & Carrillo-Calvet, 2022; Frank, Wang, Cebrian, & Rahwan, 2019).
Though commonly associated to disciplines such as mathematics, statistics and com-
puter science, AI originated as an interdisciplinary research area, and is currently
spreading to a growing number of fields (Gargiulo, Fontaine, Dubois, & Tubaro, 2023).
AI knowledge and tools are amenable to applications in such welcoming disciplines
which use them for scientific advancements, and which sometimes adapt and improve
them in turn for their conceptual and methodological needs. Bianchini et al. (2022)
studied especially such mutual improvement dynamics at a macroscopic scale of sci-
ence by focusing on the diffusion of neural networks’ concepts and tools in numerous
disciplines. Qualified as a general method of invention by these authors because of
its non-disciplinary status, AI is thus expanding the adjacent possible of the purposes
of the concerned disciplines, and is therefore the source of innovation in the latter
(Kauffman, 2000; Monechi, Ruiz-Serrano, Tria, & Loreto, 2017).
In this paper we address the process of penetration of AI inside a given field of
research. We focus on neuroscience, which are part of such fields largely receiving AI,
according to Gargiulo et al. (2023). We choose especially this field as it has a particular
history which is closely intertwined with the AI one. Indeed neuroscience and AI
are continuously providing feed-backs to each other toward the comprehension of the
human brain and the artificial reproduction of some cognitive processes (Hassabis,
Kumaran, Summerfield, & Botvinick, 2017; Savage, 2019). This lead us to also assume
that neuroscience is not only a filed that receives AI, but also contribute to reshape
AI knowledge, tools and practices, thus expanding the adjacent possible of the latter.
Along these lines, we focus on two dynamical mechanisms underlying the appro-
priation of AI by neuroscience and then the possible knowledge transfer between the
two fields:
• The cognitive embedding of AI into the multidisciplinary context of neuroscience:
1. what is the disciplinary landscape around neuroscience research which is using
AI?
2. how does such research fit in the disciplinary objectives of neuroscience?
• The diffusion throughout the neuroscience community:
3. who are the actors leading AI research in this field?
4. does AI-related knowledge widespread throughout the whole scientific commu-
nity?
In what follows we answer these questions by analyzing a large corpus of neuro-
science articles published between 1970 and 2019, extracted with a journal-oriented
2

query from the Microsoft Academic Knowledge Graph (MAG) (F¨arber, 2019). We dis-
tinguish AI-related publications from others with a dedicated keyword filter applied
to their titles and abstracts, as in (Gargiulo et al., 2023). After discussing in Section 2
the intertwined history of AI and neuroscience, and also the main concepts mobilized
in this paper, we detail in Section 3 the building of some relational structures and
some metrics given by the corpus that will be analyzed afterwards, namely its tempo-
ral egocentric citation network (composed of bibliographical references and citations
of each paper), its peer-reviewed journals, and its temporal collaboration network,
featured with the disciplinary profiles of the involved scientists.
In Sections 4.1 and 4.2, we identify within the citation network the disciplines
that are shaping the AI research in neuroscience, and the extent to which they differ
from those that are characterizing other neuroscience’s subfields unrelated to AI. We
especially show that some disciplines related to STEM have become the main influence
of AI research since the 1990s, by replacing progressively the conventionally used ones
in neuroscience and commonly associated with biomedical and clinical research. The
disciplines impacted by AI research over time are also shifting from neuroscience-
related clinical and biomedical fields to STEM ones. These first results thus show that
AI research is building itself as a subfield (or specialty) inside neuroscience, which
draws upon a disciplinary basis that is different from the other neuroscience subfields.
We also confirm this partial cognitive integration in Section 4.3, which reveals the
spreading of AI in almost all the journals of the database, but with different patterns of
promotion of such research. In particular, we show that the journals that are publishing
a lot of AI-related works are invested by researchers who contributed to AI research
in general (inside or outside neuroscience). By regarding the temporal co-authorship
network of the field, we show in the following Section 4.4 that the AI community
includes two main academic profiles: (1) researchers trained in neuroscience – mainly
within the biomedical and clinical parts –, who publish few AI-related works, and (2)
researchers trained in STEM-related disciplines and having moved to neuroscience,
who contribute much more to AI research in the welcoming field than those described
by profile (1). Putting all the AI practitioners together, we then show that they are
more and more isolated in the collaboration network since 1970.
Finally, by considering AI as a research-technology spreading across science, as
originally conceived by Shinn and Joerges (2002) and formalized later by Hentschel
(2015), we discuss in Section 5 the partial diffusion observed empirically in our results.
With this framework we also discuss the similarity and differences between the local
development dynamics of AI within this particular field of research, and the global
one within the whole science system that is depicted in (Gargiulo et al., 2023).
2 Literature review
2.1 AI and neuroscience: toward the mutual expansion of their
adjacent possible
Artificial Intelligence (AI) commonly refers to both a research program and, more
generally, a set of complex computer-based programs which aim to mimic human mind
processes with high reckoning power. Although its foundations are mainly associated
3

with STEM disciplines, mainly mathematics, statistics and computer science (Gargiulo
et al., 2023), AI is constantly evolving alongside neuroscience by maintaining a virtual
circle of mutual improvement (Hassabis et al., 2017).
Indeed neuroscience brings in a first place empirical confirmations of some theo-
retical models that reproduce parts of mental processes, and that were first imagined,
analytically derived and computationally simulated by (neuro)psychologists within
the field of cognitive science (Cooper & Shallice, 2010; Lake, Ullman, Tenenbaum,
& Gershman, 2017). Most of these models are at the roots of AI-related algorithms,
notably the case of the bio-inspired AIs such as artificial neural networks and their
numerous versions, which became biologically plausible with neuroscience. In partic-
ular, the 1980s and early 1990s marked also the launching of the first body-scanner
machines applying positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic res-
onance imaging (fMRI), both of which led to important discoveries on the functional
biological mechanisms in the human brain that are induced by complex cognitive tasks
(Cooper & Shallice, 2010). This contributed to the rise of the connectionist paradigm
that is now dominant in brain sciences, even if some debates are persisting within
cognitive science about the representations of knowledge and the logical operations
to process them in interaction with the real world (Andler, 1990; McCarthy, 1981;
Perconti & Plebe, 2020)
In the recent big data era, a panel of AI tools enables the efficient processing of
large datasets composed of various kinds of biomedical data (electroencephalogram,
MRI, biomarkers tracking, movement recordings, psychological survey, etc.), acquired
from important clinical trials and cohorts for studying brain damages (Gopinath,
2023). They are especially part of the improvement of the diagnosis of various neuro-
degenerative diseases and of the attribution of potential dedicated treatments, if they
exist.
This virtual feedback loop, well documented in the neuroscience literature, is thus
inducing a reinforcement dynamics of both AI and neuroscience which are receiving
it. From this assertion we assume that AI and neuroscience are expanding each other’s
adjacent possible (Kauffman, 2000; Monechi et al., 2017), ie. one domain is extending
the field of possibilities that have yet to be explored in the other, by blending with the
pre-existing knowledge and practices that are characterizing the latter. One domain
is thus reshaping the knowledge space of the other.
2.2 Conceiving AI as a research-technology in science
In a socio-historical perspective of science, Shinn and Joerges (2002) propose the
notion of research-technology, called also transverse science, to describe the dynam-
ics of science since the end of the 19th century, now largely based on instrumentation
for experimental or empirical investigations, especially in physical and life sciences.
Within such a research regime, the production of knowledge is conditioned by an
instrument that is designed in a specific research environment before being dissem-
inated outside the latter (Marcovich & Shinn, 2020; Shinn & Joerges, 2002). Such
an instrument requires the contribution of a dedicated socio-cognitive workforce com-
posed of a variety of actors (scientists, technicians, promoters, administrators,...), to
develop a dedicated technological culture of it, ie. a set of associated knowledge and
4

practices shared by everyone in the community, without necessarily claiming a com-
mon professional identity related to it. These criteria shape a social group that could
be also defined as an epistemic community (Haas, 1992; Roth, 2008), although the
research-technology framework relaxes the socio-cognitive boundaries that are specific
to such communities. According to Shinn and Joerges (2002), the actors mentioned
above are indeed able to move between different research environments and across the
established disciplinary boundaries in order to provide their expertise for the resolution
of diverse scientific problems.
The research-technology associated with an instrument is thus a dynamical entity,
with changing social and institutional organizations at different moments of its devel-
opment. Based on Shinn and Joerges (2002), Hentschel (2015) proposes four stages
to describe the life of a given research-technology in a historical perspective, ie.
throughout a long time period: prehistory, exploration, optimization and diffusion.
The first two stages are often associated together in the designing and testing
phases of a given instrument. According to these authors, the underlying process needs
temporarily a closure of the community working on it, thus fostering the creation of
a dedicated scientific field, often interdisciplinary, in which the instrument is also a
research object.
Shinn and Joerges (2002) also highlight the criterion of genericity of an instru-
ment: at later stages of its development, it could be adapted for disciplinary research
contexts other than those in which it has been originally designed, or for a variety of
applications outside scientific research. The two last development steps of Hentschel
are thus representing such dynamics toward this final step. In particular, the diffusion
phase requires a relaxation of the disciplinary boundaries within which the instrument
was designed during the prehistoric and exploratory phase, thus implying an openness
of the actors in the community, who promote it in different fields of research within
academia or industry. This the case of technologies related to laser beams or X-ray
emission, now use widely from experimental physics to medical research and standard
practices, even in daily objects such as smartphones (Hentschel, 2015).
According to the analysis of the AI research ecosystem provided by Gargiulo et
al. (2023), AI seems to embrace some characteristics of an instrument embedded in a
global research-technology program within science. Through the analysis of the devel-
opment of AI in neuroscience, throughout a longer time frame (1970-2019), we discuss
in Section 5 to what extent this framework applies in the case of the development and
the diffusion of AI in a single field of research.
3 Data and methods
3.1 Extraction and preprocessing of the data
MAG is a scientometric database that is well used in science of science, and especially
for drawing the main trends of research within AI research (Gargiulo et al., 2023), mea-
suring their impact in different scientific disciplines (Gao & Wang, 2023), identifying
the main actors involved in such research (Frank et al., 2019) and how they are orga-
nized accross the world (Tang, Li, & Ma, 2022), among others. Much bigger than the
traditional databases such as the Web of Science (WOS) and Scopus (Visser, Van Eck,
5

& Waltman, 2021), MAG covers not only the articles published in peer-reviewed jour-
nals, but also the publications within conference proceedings, books, preprints, etc.,
for a total of about 260 million scientific publications in all disciplines (in 2022).
MAG is organized as a big network of files containing different metadata to describe
a single publication, such as title, abstract, publication date and publisher (F¨arber,
2019). These metadata are embedded as strings or numerical identifiers in a set of
dump files linked together by link files, all of them being available on the data deposit
platform Zenodo (F¨arber, 2020).
To build an exhaustive database of the neuroscience literature from MAG, we draw
upon a list of journals that we extracted from WOS, with the help of the database
SCImago Journal Rank (SJR). We choose to use SJR in addition of WOS in order
to extend the scope of neuroscience too narrow in the classification of the last one.
Indeed the former is covering more neuroscience journals than the latter: in 2021, WOS
referenced only 281 journals labeled as Neuroscience while SJR referenced 608 journals
labeled as such. Moreover journals could be labeled differently by the two databases.
Thus, with the help of SJR, we can retrieve in WOS some journals that are not
labeled as Neuroscience in this database but that are in fact publishing papers treating
neuroscience topics. For instance, the well-recognized journal Neurocomputing, while
labeled with both Neuroscience and Computer Science in SJR, is labeled only as
Computer Science by WOS. Using SJR thus contributes to increasing the diversity of
neuroscience-related subjects treated by the articles in the final dataset under study.
After having extracted the set of journals labeled as Neuroscience by WOS, we
add the set of journals also labeled as such by SJR, and remove duplicates occurring
in both of them. We thus get 421 journals.
Here we focus only on peer-reviewed journals because of their easy availability in
WOS database, although we are aware that AI research could be largely published in
other publication media such as preprint archives and conference proceedings (Wainer,
Eckmann, Goldenstein, & Rocha, 2013).
Then we extract the publications from MAG with an ISSN identifier matching
procedure based on this list of journals. These publications are brought together in
a set denoted by P in the following. In order to distinguish AI-related works in our
neuroscience dataset, we apply a selection criterion such that they must include at least
one AI-related keyword in their title or abstract (see the SI of Gargiulo et al. (2023)
for the complete list of keywords). This subset is denoted P ∩AI. All neuroscientific
studies outside this set are called P ∩AI.
In the following we keep only the papers that were published in the period running
from 1970 until 2019, and that have at least 10 references and at least 10 generated
citations. Finally the sets P ∩AI and P ∩AI include respectively 829,317 and 26,374
papers, spread over the period mentioned as illustrated in Fig. 1. Therefore, among
all this research in neuroscience, only 3% contain AI-related keywords. The inset of
this figure exhibits especially a slow growth of the share of AI-related publications
in neuroscience at the very end of the 1980s, stabilizing around 1995 and followed
by a very rapid growth from 2007 until 2019. This plateau around 1995 suggests a
second, prolonged AI winter in neuroscience, characterized here by stable interest in
AI research but not waning, unlike in other disciplines or research fields (Cardon,
6

Cointet, & Mazi`eres, 2018; Schuchmann, 2019). The following period of important
growth of this share, started in 2007, suggests also the main influence of the rise of deep
learning techniques, a well-known trend shared by almost all the sciences (Cardon et
al., 2018; Gargiulo et al., 2023). The share of AI publications in neuroscience reaches
only 10% of the number of publications at its highest stage situated at the end of the
studied period, which means that the use of the AI keywords of our list in neuroscience
remains rather limited, even today.
Fig. 1 Left: Classification of the papers in the extracted corpus. The intersection between the blue
and red zones corresponds to the set P ∩AI in the main text, while the blue zone excluded from this
intersection represents the set P ∩AI. The green set P includes all papers added after the building of
the ego-centered citation network that are not published in neuroscience journal. Right: Cumulative
number Nc of publications in the two main subsets considered in this paper. The inset shows the
instantaneous part of AI-related publications in the whole neuroscience corpus.
3.2 Capturing the disciplinary landscape
3.2.1 Building of a citation ecosystem
After gathering the dataset under study, we build an exhaustive citation ecosystem
around neuroscience publications, as illustrated in Fig. 2. We use the general reference
link file of MAG – which is actually a giant citation network – for retrieving the
references and citations of our identified papers. We thus add such papers citing or
cited in those in our dataset, as long as they are published in a journal that belongs
to the WOS journals database – we conserve here 84% of the original citation network
centered on the neuroscience dataset P. The added papers could therefore be published
either in neuroscience publications, therefore in the set P, or in others such that
they join the set denoted by P, ie. the green border zone in Fig. 1. With the journal
classification of WOS, we then enrich these sets of references and citations by assigning
them a set of Journal Subject Categories (JSC) associated to their journals if they are
referenced in this database, which is a synonym of a large well-recognized discipline
in science.
Then, for each corpus P ∩AI and P ∩AI, we count the annual number of citations
obtained by each JSCs represented in the global set of bibliographic references used
by their papers. Doing this year by year over the period 1970-2019, we therefore build
a temporal ranking of fields of study that are most cited by each corpus. For example,
7

in Fig. 2, the papers cited by one corpus at year y0 (grey points) are mainly published
in journals labeled by the JSC d1 with 8 citations, followed by the JSCs d2 with 5
citations and d3 with only one (red points and corresponding red-contoured ranking).
Hence the disciplinary reference ranking r(y0) = {d1, d2, d3} with each JSC sorted
according to their respective ranks mentioned above. However this ranking could be
different before this year y0 and also in the following ones, depending on the citations
received by each JSC at these years.
We do the same for the JSCs that are most citing our papers of interest up to one
year after their official publication year. We choose this temporal period to avoid the
high time dispersion of the generated citations in the studied temporal period, the
citation impact by the papers published in 1970 being eventually higher than those
published in 2019.
In this way we assess from which JSCs are issued at first the generated citations
before eventually spreading into a broader disciplinary landscape. Finally, by looking
at both reference and impact side, we represent two disciplinary landscapes associated
respectively with the corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI.
Fig. 2 Citation ecosystem centered here around three papers (grey) published at year y0 and that
are included either in P ∩AI or P ∩AI. One dashed arrow represents the citation of a target paper by
a source one. Hence red points are the papers that are cited by the papers of our corpus (reference)
while the blue ones are citing them (impact). The rankings are shown in decreasing order with the
associated number of citations of each JSC di.
3.2.2 Representation of the disciplinary landscape
Following the procedure described in Section 3.2.1, and according to all the couples of
references’ and citations’ numbers associated with all the represented JSCs in P ∩AI
and P ∩AI, we associate with each JSC d two pairs of ranks indicating its weight
either in references or in citations of the two corpora at year t, denoted respectively
as rd
R(t) =

rd
R,P∩AI(t), rd
R,P∩AI(t)

and rd
I(t) =

rd
I,P∩AI(t), rd
I,P∩AI(t)

. In case of
a missing JSC in one of the two corpora at a given year t, we fill the missing rank by
a maximum value set at 100.
With one of such pair of ranks (either for references or citations), we can locate one
discipline d in a 2D space of rankings, as shown in Fig. 3. In this coordinate system,
the lower the value of one axis, the better the associated rank and the higher the
number of collected citations along this axis. The angle θ indicates the deviation of d
from the diagonal in this space, where the ranks are exactly the same in each corpus.
8

From this map we define the common interest area between P ∩AI and P ∩AI
(in grey) as the region close to the diagonal where the two rankings of the fields of
study inside it are almost the same and not significantly varying over time. This zone
is comprised between the two lines of respective equations rP∩AI = rP∩AI + τ (above
the diagonal) and rP∩AI = rP∩AI −τ (below the diagonal), with τ a parameter set as
10 in this paper.
The blue zone over the common interest area corresponds to the space where the
disciplines have a better rank in P ∩AI than in P ∩AI. In the case of references, such
disciplines in this zone are more cited by the corpus P ∩AI than by P ∩AI, and in the
case of citations received by each of the two corpora, such disciplines in this zone cite
more the papers in P ∩AI than those in P ∩AI. The purple zone under the common
interest area is therefore the opposite case, ie. in the case of references (for example),
the disciplines in this zone are more cited by the corpus P ∩AI than by P ∩AI.
Fig. 3 Coordinate system to characterize the distribution of disciplines in the references and citations
of the corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI.
In Section 4.2, we apply this per decade periods instead of single years, ie. we build
a decennial ranking space from the total number of citations given or received by the
represented JSCs in P ∩AI and P ∩AI within the period under study.
3.3 Capture use of AI by neuroscientists
3.3.1 Classification of authors according to their AI involvement
The dataset P alone would not be sufficient for a study of social dynamics of scientists
inside neuroscience. Indeed the latter would have had published in disciplines or fields
of research other than neuroscience or in journals that are not labeled as such in WOS.
We thus add another level of granularity by extracting all the missing publications
that have been published by the authors who belong to P. Notice that some of these
publications can have been published in the neuroscience journals extracted in our list
of 421 journals (see Section 3.1), since we focus only on the more impacting authors
who have published papers with at least 10 generated citations (and having at least 10
references). From this extended set of papers we deduce the duration of the scientific
9

life of each author, and we select first those who began after 1940. In addition, because
of the poor disambiguation of some authors in the provided MAG dump-files, where
some names are associated with centuries-long career and far too many publications,
we select only the authors having a reasonable duration of academic life, here up to
50 years.
With these added data, we also capture the real activity (before 2019) of each
author in AI research, not only in neuroscience but also in other fields of research by
attributing them an AI score. We define it as the share of AI-related papers published
before 2019, fAI(a) = nP∩AI
a
/ntot
a . To prevent the unexpected effect of accumulation
of scientists having an AI score equal to 1 due to a single publication in their very
short career, we filter a second time the authors dataset by considering only those who
have published at least 3 papers. We thus consider in the following 886,074 scientists,
in which 188,325 (only 16% of the scientists) have published at least one AI-related
paper in neuroscience. According to the fAI distribution shown in Fig. 4, we divide
this set of authors in four parts, namely Q (fAI = 0; Na = 697749), Q0 (fAI ∈(0, 0.5);
Na = 182925), Q1 (fAI ∈[0.5, 1); Na = 4977) and Q2 (fAI = 1; Na = 423).
Fig. 4 Distribution of the AI score fAI of the authors.
3.3.2 Collaboration network
We then build a temporal co-signature network TCN from the set of papers P.
Two authors i and j publishing together at year t are linked by an edge weighted
by the number of common publications at this year wij(t). All co-signatures in all
papers published in year t shape a weighted snapshot called TCN(t). In order to
unveil the structure of the collaboration at macro-scale in the whole period 1970-2019,
we build the weighted time-aggregated co-signature network ACN, which includes
the set V of all authors appearing in the dataset, and a set of weighted edges
obtained by summing all the weights of the edges appearing in each snapshot of TCN,
E = { ˜wij ∀(i, j) ∈V 2| ˜wij = P
t wij(t)}. ACN is finally composed of 871,282 nodes and
7,420,423 weighted edges, and is divided into 17,599 independent connected compo-
nents, with a giant one including 93% of the nodes. The smallest components exhibit
also a non-negligible representation of authors belonging to the quartiles Q1 and Q2,
respectively 25,5% and 26,5% of the population in these quartiles. Since the authors
10

belonging to them are supposed to drive the AI research in neuroscience, we choose
to keep all the communities for our analysis, even smaller than the giant component.
Here the collaboration network is built only among the most impacting scientists
of our dataset. Indeed we draw on the one hand the collaboration network directly
from the set of neuroscience papers that are the most impacting in terms of citations,
and on the other hand we focus on the authors who published at least 3 articles up to
2019. Therefore we disregard the short-terms collaborations among very early-career
scientists, short-career scientists or extra-academic ones, who are involved in one or two
publications with too small impact but who can potentially drive forward innovation.
3.3.3 Intensity of collaborations between fAI quartiles
In this section we detail the general computation of z-scores which will be used
in Section 4.4.2 to indicate the propensity of collaboration in the time-aggregated
collaboration network ACN.
We first consider a static collaboration network G = {S, E} with S the set of
scientists and E the set of edges between them. Each scientist in S is identified by their
respective AI score fAI. According to Section 3.3.1, the distribution is divided in four
parts {Q, Q0, Q1, Q2}, from the least to the most AI-expert. Therefore one author is
belonging to one given group Q given its own AI score. By aggregating the scientists
into such Q groups, we compute the 4 × 4 matrix τobs of effective edges between these
groups, where one element is written as τobs(Qi, Qj) = |{(u, v)|u ∈Qi, v ∈Qj}|.
Then we create a set of N alternative collaboration networks { ˜Gk} = {(S, ˜Ek)},
with k = {1, ..., N}, which are all based on the same set of scientists but have differ-
ent sets of edges obtained by perturbing the network with a uniform shuffling which
conserves the degree distribution of the scientists. By applying the same clustering of
scientists in Q groups for each network as for the real network G, we draw a set of
matrices {τk} corresponding to the share of edges between the Q groups within the
randomized networks { ˜Gk}. From this set we extract on the one hand the average
matrix τsim where one element is defined as τsim(Qi, Qj) =
1
N
P
k τk(Qi, Qj), and
on the other hand the standard deviation matrix σ where one element is defined as
σ(Qi, Qj) =
1
N−1
P
k(τk(Qi, Qj) −τsim(Qi, Qj))2.
We finally compare the empirical matrix τobs of the real network with the simulated
one τsim through a z-score matrix where one element is defined as follows:
z(Qi, Qj) = τobs(Qi, Qj) −τsim(Qi, Qj)
σ(Qi, Qj)
.
(1)
This standardization is used here to test the over-representation or under-
representation of a given number of edges between two groups with respect to the
corresponding average simulated value which represents an ideal situation through
randomization. Applying the whole procedure before on the network ACN built in
Section 3.3.2, with N = 100, gives the Fig. 13B. Fig. 13A is also drawn by applying the
same method with same N on each temporal snapshot of the temporal collaboration
network TCN (see also Section 3.3.2), and by aggregating the groups Q0, Q1 and Q2
into a single one called Qi (see Fig. 13A) that includes all the scientists with at least
11

one AI-related publication. Since TCN is undirected, the 4 × 4 matrices τobs, τsim, σ
and z are therefore reduced to scalars defined with only the two groups Q and Qi.
4 Results
4.1 Citation homogenisation of the AI research specialty with
general neuroscience
First of all we explore the integration of AI technologies and knowledge within
neuroscience through the dynamical interaction between the respective disciplinary
environment of the two fields – AI and neuroscience. We especially compare year by
year the basis of reference and citations that are shaping these fields, that are here rep-
resented as the AI-related publications and the non-AI ones within our neuroscience
dataset.
After having divided the neuroscientific papers in two sub-corpora, one including
the AI-related papers (P ∩AI) and another including non-AI ones (P ∩AI), we build
for each of them two disciplinary rankings which could vary over time, one for the
disciplines appearing in their respective references (rR(t)), called reference ranking
in the following, and another for those appearing in the respective citations they
have received (rI(t)), called citation ranking in the following. The reference ranking
associated with one given corpus summarizes its main influential fields of study, thus
the disciplinary structure on which it draws over time, while the citation ranking
indicates the fields that are impacted at first by the corpus (for more detail, see
Section 3.2.1 above).
We then compare macroscopically at each year the reference rankings of the
two corpora (rR
P∩AI(t) and rR
P∩AI(t)) and also their citation rankings (rI
P∩AI(t) and
rI
P∩AI(t)) by using a common similarity metric J provided by Gargiulo et al. (2016,
see their supplementary materials). This last measure, comprised between 0 and 1,
evaluates how similar are two given rankings rA and rB: if J(rA, rB) = 1, the two
rankings are exactly the same, ie. containing the same elements with the same respec-
tive ranks; conversely, if J(rA, rB) = 0, the elements included in rA are not in rB,
whatever their respective ranks.
Fig. 5 shows the evolution of two such similarity measures, a first one for comparing
the rankings of disciplines cited by the corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI (blue curve) and
a second one for comparing the rankings of the disciplines that are citing them over
time (red curve).
This figure shows that the disciplines cited by P ∩AI remain quite different from
those cited by P ∩AI. However the almost linear growth over time of the similarity of
references is a signal of bibliographic homogenisation. We observe also on this figure a
similar behavior for the second similarity measure related to the disciplines citing the
two corpora, which could be divided at first glance in two stages. First the similarity
stabilized at a very low value between 1970 and 1987, ie. the two corpora were cited
by two very different sets of disciplines, then it has been steadily increasing since
1988, ie. the sets of disciplines that are showing interest for respectively the AI-related
literature and the non-AI one, have become more intertwined over time.
12

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2020
t
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
J(rP∩AI(t), rP∩AI(t))
Reference
Impact
Fig. 5 Instantaneous similarity between the references’ or citations’ (also called impact) rankings
of the two corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI at year t.
4.2 Neuroscience and AI: two different disciplinary landscapes
We now study the difference between the disciplinary environments of the AI-related
corpus (P∩AI) and the non-AI one (P∩AI) in our neuroscience dataset. In particular,
by considering the individual disciplines that are commonly cited by (or are citing)
both of the two corpora, we compare to what extent these disciplines are actually cited
by (are citing) each of them. The goal of such an analysis is to identify the disciplines
from which each corpus prefers to find information, ie. their references, and those into
which they spread their knowledge, ie. their citations.
By applying the framework described in Section 3.2, we associate with each repre-
sented discipline d in the references or citations of the corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI, their
time-aggregated ranks over decades,

˜rd
P∩AI(T), ˜rd
P∩AI(T)

, with T = [t0, t0 + 10) a
given time period where t0 ∈{1970, 1980, 1990, 2000, 2010}. These ranks are built with
the total numbers of references to the discipline d made by the corpora (references),
or with the total numbers of citations given by d to the corpora (citations, or impact)
during the time period T.
We then locate the cited or citing disciplines in the 2D space of rankings associated
with each corpus respectively, as shown in Fig. 6. In one of the maps drawn on this
figure, one colored disc represents a specific discipline d that is located with its respec-
tive ranks in each corpus during the considered time period, in references (Fig. 6A)
or citations (Fig. 6B). Lower the value of one axis, better the associated rank, and
then higher the number of collected citations along this axis. From these maps we
define the common interest area between P ∩AI and P ∩AI as the region close to
the diagonal where the two rankings of the fields of study are almost the same and
not significantly varying over time. These fields are colored in grey in these maps. The
fields that are more dispersed around the diagonal are represented with two different
colors, the blue ones having a better rank in P ∩AI than in P ∩AI and the purple
ones having a better rank in P ∩AI than in P ∩AI.
To characterize each of these three areas around the diagonal in the references
(citations) of each corpus, we use the annual couples of ranks rd
R(t) (rd
I(t)) of each
represented discipline d in P ∩AI and P ∩AI, and we compute the temporal angle
θ(t) that indicates its temporal deviation from the diagonal, here corresponding to
13

Fig. 6 Time-aggregated ranking maps of the fields of study involved in publications cited by both of
the studied corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI (A), and in publications that are citing them (B). The dashed
lines show the diagonal where the rankings are exactly the same in the two corpora. Only are shown
the most significant disciplines, with the condition that they commonly appear in the two corpora.
The sizes of the discs, based on their empirical number of citations in the two different corpora, are
normalized to compare their respective citation weights within each corpus. Grey points correspond
to disciplines confined in the area between the two lines of respective equations rP∩AI = rP∩AI + τ
(above the diagonal) and rP∩AI = rP∩AI −τ (below the diagonal), with τ = 10, and with no
important variations of positions from one period to one another. The most persistent ones over the
5 represented decades, with a rank lower than 20, are mentioned in the upper left box of each figure
A and B. Finally, blue points are the most preferred disciplines of the P ∩AI corpus while purple
ones are those for the corpus P ∩AI. Abbreviations of the apparent disciplines are given in App. C.
14

the null angle θ = 0. Then we compute inside each zone and at each year the average
angle ⟨θ⟩and the standard deviation from the latter, both represented in Fig. 7.
Fig. 7 Temporal average angles produced by the disciplines in each area of reference’s (left) and
impact’s (right) diagrams of Fig. 6, with respect to the diagonals represented here by a dashed line
at ⟨θ⟩= 0. The colored area covering the curves are representing their respective standard deviation
from the mean angle. The angles are expressed in radians.
The disciplinary composition of the common interest area, concentrated around
the diagonals of all the maps, includes rather the same fields at each decade, both on
references’ and impact’s sides. According to the common ones that are more persis-
tent over decades inside the references and received citations (see upper left boxes in
Figs. 6A and 6B), the core of the observed citation dynamics lies in neuroscience and
is composed by disciplines that are mainly associated with medicine and biomedical
research, such that Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Behavioral Sciences, Clini-
cal Neurology, Physiology, Cell Biology, Psychology, Psychiatry and Ophthalmology.
This zone is thus coinciding with the definition of neuroscience given by neuroscien-
tists themselves, namely it “include[s] all fields that are involved with the study of
the brain, the behaviors that it generates, and the mechanisms by which it does so,
including cognitive neuroscience, systems neuroscience and psychology” (Hassabis et
al. (2017), p. 245). This zone is also accompanied by disciplines whose ranks are more
variable and that are associated to more technological aspects of neuroscience, such
as Computer Science, Engineering, Radiology, Neuroimaging and Audiology & Speech-
Language pathology. A description of the evolution of the disciplinary landscape inside
this zone is detailed in App. B.
The special disciplinary ecosystem of the non-AI corpus P ∩AI, in blue in the
rankings maps of Fig. 6, is also centered around biomedical fields of study that tend
to be close to the disciplines that characterize the whole neuroscience as mentioned
above. In particular, as shown in Fig. 7, the mean angles and the standard deviations
of the disciplines in the associated zone are asserting a global concentration of them
toward the common interest area, which includes on one hand the most influential
fields of research (reference) and on the other hand the core of those that show the
same interest for the two studied corpora (impact). We also notice in the reference’s
angle plot of Fig. 7 a deviation from the diagonal of the disciplines in this zone of
references since 2010, that is also shared by the disciplines in the common interest
area of references. This suggests a recent shift of references shared by the two corpora
toward fields of study preferred by the non-AI corpus.
Conversely, the special disciplinary ecosystem of P ∩AI evolves differently by
representing the mathematical, computational and technological part of neuroscience
15

since 1970. The regular references to Computer Science, Physics, Statistics & Proba-
bility, Mathematical & Computational Biology and Engineering show a large influence
of technological-oriented research in this particular AI research in neuroscience. Pro-
gressively concentrated toward the common interest area between 1970 and the late
1980 (see Fig. 7), these references preferred by P ∩AI become more further away
from the common interest area and more dispersed after this period, thus indicat-
ing a cognitive differentiation of references on which the AI-related corpus P ∩AI is
drawing upon from the non-AI corpus P ∩AI. In addition, while neuroscience and
associated medical fields – as Clinical Neurology and Neuroimaging – remain the pri-
mary stakeholders in the AI research conducted within it, the latter appears to be of
varied interest, since the 1980s, to a subset of disciplines which do not place as much
emphasis on works in the non-AI corpus and which are common to those cited pref-
erentially by the AI-corpus over time, such as Computer Science, Engineering and
Mathematics for Computational Biology, the last one exhibiting especially a spectac-
ular increase of its own rank between 1990 and 2019 (see Figs. 6A and B1). Moreover,
these special disciplines that cite most the corpus P ∩AI in Fig. 6B are as dispersed
as the most cited ones by this corpus in Fig. 6A, and remain over time less close to
the common interest area than the disciplines preferring the other corpus P ∩AI (see
the corresponding annual evolution of the average angle ⟨θ⟩, colored in purple in the
impact side of Fig. 7). All these results thus show that AI research in neuroscience is
situated in a particular disciplinary environment that is not shared by the core of the
neuroscience field.
By regarding the disciplines with the most significant rank evolution within the
AI ecosystem P ∩AI, Fig. 8 shows the rise of Neuroimaging and Radiology both
on references’ and impact’s sides, as already observed in the common interest area,
and also the progressive domination of Computer Science. This figure shows also the
decrease of the influence of fields of research linked to the disciplinary orientations of
neuroscience and especially of the corpus P ∩AI. This is also a sign of a progressive
differentiation of the research supported through AI from the rest of neuroscience.
The case of Physiology, which contributed to the foundations of neuroscience (Cooper
& Shallice, 2010), is particularly eloquent with its distancing in time from the highest
positions in the reference ranking of the corpus P ∩AI since the 2000s. This observed
retreat of master neuroscience disciplines, that had a strong influence in the building
of AI in this field since the 1970s, suggests that a social transformation occurred in
this special research during the studied temporal period. Perconti and Plebe (2020)
mention such a transformation, in which AI in neuroscience was a matter for biomed-
ical specialists before becoming an object of study and technological developments for
engineers. This will be shown empirically in the following sections.
4.3 An AI literature confined in a small set of journals
Another factor of differentiation of the AI research from the core of neuroscience lies
on the set of journals in which the former are mainly published. Here we analyze how
1Fig. 6B shows also a particular proximity of the AI-related corpus with the field of chemistry, here
represented with the JSCs Chemistry and Biochemical Research Methods, the latter giving more citations
than the former since 1990.
16

Fig. 8 Time evolution of the ranking rP∩AI of the disciplines that are mostly represented by the
corpus P ∩AI in the references (top) and citations (bottom), ie. situated in the lower zone of the
maps shown in Fig. 6. Only the curves with most significant evolution are highlighted with colors.
AI is promoted within the 421 journals included in the whole neuroscience dataset, and
who are the authors heading to the neuroscience journals publishing most AI research.
For each journal, based on its respective entire publication history, we compute
the temporal share aAI(t) of AI-related publications (called also temporal AI activity),
and its global share aAI of such publications since its launch year (called also just AI
activity). These scores are represented in Fig. 9. We then identify the journals with
aAI higher than 10%, whose names and launch years are given in the table in the
bottom of this figure.
According to the evolution of the AI activities of neuroscience journals, the AI-
related research in this field is concentrated around a small subset of journals providing
development in computational techniques mainly linked to neural networks and cogni-
tion. These journals are quite representative of the connectionist wave of AI which is
17

C
B
A
20
1
2
3 45
6 7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15 16
17
18
19
21 22
23
Journal
Launch year in
the database
aAI
1
Cognitive Science
1976
0.12
2
Journal of Sensory Studies
1986
0.10
3
Neural Networks
1987
0.53
4
Neural Processing Letters
1988
0.70
5
Neurocomputing
1989
0.56
6
Neural Computation
1989
0.37
7
Network: Computation in Neural Systems
1990
0.28
8
Adaptive Behavior
1992
0.31
9
Neural Network World
1994
0.39
10
Cognitive Systems Research
1999
0.30
11
IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and
Rehabilitation Engineering
2001
0.22
12
Neuroinformatics
2001
0.19
13
Plos Computational Biology
2005
0.12
14
Frontiers in Neuroinformatics
2007
0.19
15
Computational
Intelligence
and
Neuro-
science
2007
0.55
16
Cognitive Neurodynamics
2007
0.24
17
Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience
2007
0.23
18
Evolutionary Intelligence
2008
0.70
19
Cognitive Computation
2009
0.51
20
Topics in Cognitive Science
2009
0.10
21
Journal of Mathematical Neuroscience
2011
0.13
22
NeuroImage: Clinical
2012
0.11
23
Biological Psychiatry: Cognitive Neuro-
science and Neuroimaging
2016
0.11
Fig. 9 Top diagrams: A: Temporal AI activity of the journals. One square at the position (j, t)
of the diagram is the share of AI publications in the journal j at time t. One column of the plot
is the AI activity of one journal. B: Distribution of the global AI activity of the journals over all
their publications up to 2019. The horizontal axis is corresponding to the journals axis of the bottom
plot A, as shown by the red dashed zone. C: Zoomed activities of the 23 most active journals in AI
research, with a global AI-activity higher than 10%. They are indicated in the bottom table.
18

active in neuroscience since the late 1980s (Cardon et al., 2018). They are represent-
ing 32,7% of the scientific production of AI in neuroscience during the whole period
1970-2019, according to our dataset, the rest being distributed among the 398 other
journals with a much smaller AI-activity (less than 10%).
The spectrum of aAI (top yellow curve in Fig. 9) shows that the launches of the
most AI active journals in the neuroscience field are concentrated around three periods.
The first one spans the period 1987-1994 with especially 7 journals (no. 3 to 9 in the
table of Fig. 9) whose aAI is higher than 28% and whose scopes are oriented toward
computational neuroscience and the use of neural network formalism for complex
calculations, especially the simulation of cognition on neural systems. These journals,
except no. 7 and 9 (respectively Network: Computation in Neural Systems and Neural
Network World) are showing well-sustained activity on AI research. This period falls
commonly into the second “AI winter”, when AI-research funding and the production
of scientific results and associated technological solutions were at their lowest for a
second time (Cardon et al., 2018; Schuchmann, 2019). Paradoxically, neuroscience are
especially active in such research in this period, as shown by the strong, long-lasting
AI-activity of these journals created in this period.
The second period includes the journals 10, 11 and 12, which were launched
between 1999 and 2001. The journal IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Reha-
bilitation Engineering is especially oriented toward the development of computational
methods and technological tools to capture the neural activity of the brain. This period
is followed by another until 2007 which did not lead to the launch of AI-active journals.
Finally, the third period following the latter, between 2007 and 2009, saw the launch
of numerous journals (no. 14 to 20) in a particularly short time, that are fostering
research at the crossroads of neuroscience and cognitive science. It includes especially
the most AI active journal of our dataset, Evolutionary Intelligence, whose scope is
oriented toward evolutionary computation, a subset of the field of optimization. Its
temporal activity is also strongly sustained over the whole time period covered in our
datasets.
Aggregating over time, Fig. 10 shows a linear correlation between the mean AI-
activity in the journals and the average of the AI scores fAI of the authors that have
published at least one paper in these journals. The tail at highest aAI (higher than
0,1) is corresponding to the top 15 of the most AI-active journals given in Fig. 9. This
particular result thus unveils attraction of the authors publishing the most AI-related
works of our dataset in the journals with a high AI-activity in time. This suggests
that AI research in neuroscience is done by a specialized scientific community inside
this field with its own journals for communicating results.
4.4 Who are the scientists making AI in neuroscience?
4.4.1 Disciplinary profiles in each quartile of the fAI distribution
In this part we focus on the profiles of the scientists doing AI in neuroscience (in
Fig. 4, included in one of the quartiles Q0, Q1 or Q2) and how they are inserted into
the global authorship landscape of neuroscience. In particular, we compare these AI
practitioners with the other scientists in neuroscience who never published AI-related
19

10−2
10−1
100
aAI
10−2
10−1
100
fAI
0.0
0.125
0.25
σfAI
Fig. 10 Correlation plot between the global AI activity aAI of the journals appearing in P and the
average AI scores fAI of the authors who are published in it between 1970 and 2019. Each point
represents one journal in the horizontal aAI space, colored by the standard deviation of the fAI
scores of their associated authors. The maximum average value of fAI is situated around 0,4.
papers (included in the quartile Q) under two aspects, namely (1) their disciplinary
background and (2) their disciplinary trajectory in academia.
We define the disciplinary background of one author as the set of unique disci-
plines corresponding to the journals in which he/she has published in his/her first
year of academic life, namely the year of his/her very first publication(s). For exam-
ple, a fictitious author publishing his/her three first papers in the same year y0 in
two different journals labeled with disciplines {d1}, {d1, d2} and {d3} respectively,
would have a disciplinary background composed of disciplines {d1, d2, d3}. In this way,
another fictitious author who has published only one paper in his/her first year of aca-
demic life (actually the most frequent situation, occurring 64% of times in the dataset)
would have a disciplinary background composed only of the discipline(s) labeling the
corresponding journal.
Then we compute for each quartile the temporal cumulative number of new scien-
tists trained in each represented disciplinary background in this quartile, as shown in
Fig. 11. In this way we assess for each quartile the main native specialties in which
authors have first published.
Fig. 11 shows that the profiles included in Q0 and Q overall the period 1940-2019
are very similar. They are mainly confined in biomedical research around neuroscience,
as well as in Multidisciplinary Sciences which is represented by 91 international jour-
nals with a broad topical diversity. We recognize also the main fields of research that
are shaping the common interest area of the disciplinary ecosystems of the two sep-
arated AI and non-AI corpora (see the most persistent disciplines in references and
citations in Fig. 6). These two profiles best represent the disciplinary spectrum of neu-
roscience itself. We notice in addition the spectacular increase of the Neurosciences
curve in the two plots until the 1970s (after having emerged in 1957 for Q and in 1962
for Q0), followed by a quasi-linear progression until 2015. This boom of neuroscience
profiles in these quartiles suggests that modern neuroscience is progressively being
institutionalized as a well-structured discipline in science.
The profiles of Q1 and Q2 shown in Fig. 11 are at the opposite of the previous
ones, coming at most from fields of research related to Computer Science. The spe-
cialty Computer Science, Neuroscience, which emerged in 1988 for Q1 and in 1991
20

for Q2 indicates the rising of a group of scientists that are specialized into computa-
tion in neuroscience. Notice that the behavior of the Neurosciences curve within Q1
in Fig. 11 appears later than computational and engineering profiles, suggesting also
that AI-related knowledge and technological tools penetrate progressively the global
neuroscience field.
From the subset of authors belonging to the most frequent disciplinary background
in each quartile, we consider their respective disciplinary profile as the disciplines
corresponding to the journals in which they publish throughout their scientific life –
that would not be ended for the youngest still publishing in 2019. We therefore draw
from these two parameters – disciplinary background and career-related disciplines
– the typical disciplinary trajectories in each quartile, which are shown in Fig. 12.
Since the backgrounds are built from the publications at a given year, the authors
who began their career in 2019 would have a disciplinary profile corresponding to it.
For avoiding an over-representation of some confined disciplinary trajectories due to
these newcomers, we therefore consider only the authors who began at the latest in
2018. For the sake of clarity we select only the most significant trajectories.
As a confirmation of the disciplinary background shown in Fig. 11, Fig. 12 shows
that the studied authors in Q and Q0 are involved in a similar disciplinary landscape
centered around Ophthalmology, Clinical Neurology and general Neurosciences, while
Q1 and Q2 are more confined into Computer Science and Engineering. In particular, by
considering neuroscience as the subset of disciplines composed of the WOS disciplines
Neurosciences, Clinical Neurology and Neuroimaging, we observe that Q and Q0 are
more involved in that field of research, with respectively 77% of the authors in the first
and 78% of those in the second with a disciplinary profile that includes one or more
of the fields of research associated with neuroscience. On the contrary, 45% of the
authors in Q1 and 42% of the authors in Q2 have a disciplinary profile that includes
such JSCs. These two last quartiles are therefore mainly detached of the neuroscience
goals given the disciplinary backgrounds and profiles of their main respective authors.
These results thus show that neuroscience is a field that brings together heterogeneous
profiles who seem to serve different epistemic objectives inside and outside neuroscience
(Sedooka, Steffen, Paulsen, & Darbellay, 2015).
Nonetheless we notice two special things about these last quartiles. First the
authors who began into the specialties including one or more neuroscience-related
disciplines tends to continue in the same field of research, which is sometimes
interdisciplinary, such as the combinations Computer Science, Neurosciences and Neu-
roimaging, Neurosciences, Radiology. This means that these scientists are trained into
a disciplinary context centered around neuroscience. Second, some authors who began
into Computer Science, Engineering or mathematics-related disciplines – who seem to
be more distant from neuroscience in their disciplinary backgrounds – continue into
neuroscience, as shown by the combination of their originating field(s) of research with
neuroscience ones in their disciplinary profiles in Fig. 12, for instance Computer Sci-
ence, Engineering leading to Computer Science, Engineering, Neurosciences. The late
emergence of interdisciplinary profiles in computer science and neuroscience, who are
more involved in neuroscience in general, such as those in Q2, also testify that the AI
21

Fig. 11 Cumulative number of new authors per disciplinary background for each quartile. For one
plot, the point of the curve of the specialty d at year t is the number of authors who have published
their first articles inside d during their very first year of academic career, since the year of first
appearance of d. Only the top 10 native specialties in 2019 are shown in Q, Q0 and Q1, and the top
6 for Q2 because of the insignificance of the following ones.
22

Fig. 12 Significant disciplinary trajectories of the authors belonging in each quartile. On each plot
lie on the left the most significant disciplinary backgrounds, and on the right lie the career-related
disciplines up to 2019.
23

community is taking root in the global neuroscience landscape, the more recent pro-
files in neuroscience becoming insiders in this new technological specialty. All these
scientists thus represents a special labor force for neuroscience whose main expertise
lies in AI, and more generally in mathematical, computational and technological tools
(Perconti & Plebe, 2020).
4.4.2 Structure of the collaboration network between quartiles
We investigate in the following how AI practitioners are distributed within the neuro-
science community, and how are shaped the collaborations between them, especially
between the different kinds of scientific profiles described before.
We first consider the temporal collaboration network TCN built in Section 3.3.2,
and we evaluate the temporal standardized share of edges between scientists belonging
respectively to Q and to all other quartiles Qi (see Section 3.3.3 for the calculation of
such score). This score is showed in Fig. 13A, from which we deduce two facts.
First, all its values are lower than 0 over time, meaning that the number of edges
between the two ensembles Q and {Q0, Q1, Q2}, is lower than the average one com-
puted from several random distributions of all the edges between the authors in TCN.
This fact thus shows that the AI practitioners within neuroscience and the other neu-
roscientists maintain few collaborations as TCN grows over time. Second this situation
worsens over time, with a steady decline until the 1990s followed by a steeper one
toward 2015. Although this tendency has reversed since 2015, these results indicates
that the neuroscientists making AI, ie. in Qi and not in Q, are shaping an almost inde-
pendent community inside neuroscience by widening progressively a gap with other
neuroscientists belonging to the set Q. Furthermore, concerning especially the authors
in Q0, who have similar disciplinary backgrounds and trajectories as the authors in
Q (see Figs. 11 and 12), the results advanced above also suggest that the scientists in
Q0 became progressively outsiders from the subset Q in the history of neuroscience
by moving closer to AI – even if the scientists in Q0 have few AI-related publications.
This social divide is confirmed with Fig. 13B, which represents the panorama of
the links shared between the different quartiles in ACN (see also Section 3.3.3). This
diagram represents a stabilized situation observed since the end of the 1990s (see
Fig. D3 in App. D), where the scientists in Qi cosign more with one another than with
Q while the scientists in the second ensemble prefer to collaborate with one another
as well. This social separation around AI research does not produce, however, a strict
knowledge divide in neuroscience, as demonstrated before with the temporal similarity
index of disciplines impacted directly by neuroscience in Fig. 5, as well as with the
temporal evolution of the disciplinary landscapes in Fig. 6, both indicating meaning
that the quartiles Qi export their knowledge in the whole neuroscience as much as the
quartile Q.
We also observe in Fig. 13B a polarization within the subset of AI practitioners in
neuroscience. Indeed, the authors belonging to Q1 and Q2 are more strongly connected
together than with those in Q0. This can be explained by the disciplinary proximity of
the authors in Q1 and Q2 observed in Fig. 11, especially the prominence between the
late 1980s and the early 2000s of full computer scientists and hybrid profile publish-
ing in journals labeled as Computer Science, Neurosciences. Furthermore, the links
24

between Q1 and Q0 are much more important than those between Q2 and Q0. The
scientists in Q1 thus appears to be the most interdisciplinary by assuring the bridge
between these differentiated profiles inside AI community. These other outsiders in
neuroscience are especially driving the diffusion of AI in neuroscience from computa-
tion to medical and clinical applications, given their disciplinary trajectories shown in
Fig. 12.
Fig. 13 A: Temporal z-score applied to the edges in TCN between the scientists in Q and those
in the other Qi, here aggregated together under the notation Qi. B: Z-score matrix of the edges
between each quartile in the time-aggregated collaboration network ACN. The values are normalized
with the absolute maximum one in the matrix.
5 Discussion
In this article we have explored the penetration of AI in neuroscience through the
co-development of the two fields and especially the construction of a technological
specialty centered around AI inside neuroscience. To do this we have conducted a
scientometric analysis of an exhaustive bibliometric database that aims to represent
at best neuroscience research between 1970 and 2019. This analysis relies on many
indicators.
First, we have conducted a comparative analysis of the egocentric citation networks
associated with respectively AI research and non-AI research within neuroscience.
We have shown that the sets of disciplines influencing respectively the AI-related
works and the non-AI ones tend to be similar over time, as well as those impacted
by these works. AI thus becomes epistemically embedded in neuroscience over time,
by reproducing citation patterns that are characterizing the field – ie. toward the
disciplines that structure the field –, and by increasingly impacting the disciplines that
show the most interest in this field – including neuroscience itself.
However, we have shown at micro-scale a progressive cognitive differentiation of the
AI research from the non-AI one within neuroscience, based on both the employed bib-
liographic references in each of the two fields and their respective ensemble of impacted
disciplines. We especially have observed specialization of AI research toward computer
science, mathematics and engineering, while the core of neuroscience research draws
upon biomedical and clinical research fields related to it. This differentiation is also
produced by the neuroscience journals landscape, in which a small set of 23 journals,
the most active in AI research in neuroscience, are representing those STEM fields
25

in references and are gathering the scientists who are the most active in AI in neu-
roscience as well. Furthermore, by observing the fields impacted by the two corpora
under study, we show that AI research targets rather the same fields of research as
those cited by it. The epistemic integration of AI into neuroscience that was observed
at first glance thus remains partial because of a specialty demarcation process of the
former from the latter.
In a second step we explained this specialization by conducting a relational
approach based on the scientific profiles of the authors of the studied database. By
distinguishing the AI practitioners in neuroscience from the other neuroscience spe-
cialists, we have shown that the first tend to not maintain links with the second in the
temporal co-authorship network including the main collaborations in the field since
1970. With the previous results we concluded that AI researchers are outsiders in
neuroscience. We especially have distinguished two classes in this group of scientists,
namely a first wave of outsiders including authors who are trained in the main dis-
ciplines that are shaping the neuroscience field since the 1940s and who have a low
AI activity, and a smallest second wave which emerged around the 1980s and that is
including authors who are trained in other disciplines that are not represented in the
former group, such as computer science and engineering, and who exhibit the high-
est activities in AI research in general (inside and outside neuroscience). Furthermore
this second group is not the most involved in the field of neuroscience, its members
keeping to publish within their original disciplines that are mainly STEM ones.
This social polarization inside the AI practitioners in neuroscience suggests that
AI becomes over the years a set of technologies that need to be shaped not only by
neuroscientists themselves, but also with the help of scientists coming from outside
neuroscience, or from within the discipline but with an interdisciplinary background,
and who present specific expertise about AI itself. Since we considered AI as a global
research-technology in science (Hentschel, 2015; Marcovich & Shinn, 2020; Shinn &
Joerges, 2002), these results thus are a consequence of the diffusion of AI outside
its originating STEM disciplines and throughout the science system (Gargiulo et al.,
2023). The second wave of AI researchers described before represents the mobility of
such experts toward other fields of research, in order to propose and integrate the
associated knowledge and technologies to achieve some of the disciplinary objectives
of these receiving fields or, less ambitiously, to solve some technical problems that
could not be solved with more conventional tools.
These results thus illustrate quite well the generic property of AI when applied in
neuroscience, which is producing a social and cognitive differentiation inside the latter
(Shinn & Joerges, 2002). However we could question the relevance of this criterion in
this case, where only 3% of publications in our dataset involves AI according to our
keyword filter introduced in Section 3.1. This leads especially to ask how spread is AI
across the topics covered by neuroscience over time, ie. if it is present in all subfields
of neuroscience or concentrated around a few ones. With such a topic space, and by
reusing data about authors, the co-signature network and the citation network, we
could evaluate more precisely how much universal AI is inside neuroscience through
the distributions of authors and citations in this topic space, and then deduce the
propensity of AI to fit with the knowledge and methods associated with some topics
rather than others.
26

Nonetheless, the dynamical process of integration of AI in neuroscience exhibits
some differences regarding the global history of AI in science depicted in (Gargiulo et
al., 2023). Although the development of AI in science is statistically characterized by
a disciplinary closure around STEM disciplines between 1980 and 2010, AI continued
its interactions with neuroscience for its own epistemic purposes in this period, as
shown by a large number of journals created in this period and that are very active
in AI research (see Section 4.3), and by its global citational impact in the discipline
(see Sections 4.2 and 4.1). However, a social closure was simultaneously occurring
and accentuated inside the field, where not everyone is finally using AI at all, even in
recent days. According to Shinn and Joerges (2002), this is typical of a differentiation
process observed in the conception phase of an instrument.
The penetration of AI inside a single discipline thus could also be described as
another underlying dynamical process of development of the associated knowledge and
instruments following the four steps of Hentschel (2015), included inside the diffusion
phase of the original instrument. For instance, the AI developed inside neuroscience,
potentially different from the originally what is produced in STEM disciplines, would
be also adapted to furnish other capabilities in neuroscience first, but also in other
disciplines or fields of research afterwards if they judge it useful for their own goals.
Under such an hypothesis, we could explore more precisely on the one hand the expan-
sion of adjacent possible of neuroscience caused directly by AI, and on the other hand
the expansion of the adjacent possible of other fields that have been influenced later
by an adapted AI that was designed in neuroscience (Bianchini et al., 2022; Kauffman,
2000; Monechi et al., 2017).
In addition to the limitations mentioned throughout this paper, especially for the
building of our database described in Section 3, we should also consider diversity of
types of publications that could differ from one discipline to another, and the manner
they impact different disciplinary communities as well. Indeed, we have shown that
most of AI research published in peer-reviewed journals in neuroscience is impact-
ing mainly neuroscience itself, but we could test whether this pattern subsists in
other media for communicating research results, such as conference proceedings and
preprints sharing platforms such as arXiv, commonly used by mathematicians, physi-
cists and computer scientists (Wainer et al., 2013). Future research may clarify whether
our results hold if we consider the impact of AI produced within neuroscience through
these other publication outlets.
Finally, this paper intends to be a road map for further studies of the diffusion
of AI in a broad range of disciplines or fields of research that are receptive to it, but
probably with different patterns. A comparative work would then be required.
6 Declarations
• Ethics approval and consent to participate: Not applicable.
• Consent for publication: Not applicable.
• Availability of data, materials and codes: The datasets used for the this
study are available at: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10777508. The codes for
27

analyzing them are available at: https://github.com/sysyMC/AI in Neuroscience
EpistemicIntegration SocialSegregation.
• Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
• Funding: S.F. is funded through a CNRS-MITI PhD grant within the project “Epis-
temic Impact of Artificial Intelligence in Science” (EpiAI). This research has been
partially supported by the ANR grant ScientIA (ANR-21-CE38-0020).
• Authors’ contributions: S.F. collected and analyzed the data, discussed the results,
wrote the manuscript. F.G. conceived the research, collected the data, discussed the
results, wrote the manuscript. M.D. discussed the results, wrote the manuscript.
P.T. discussed the results, wrote the manuscript. All authors have read and approved
the manuscript.
• Acknowledgements: We thank Abdelghani Maddi for very useful discussions.
Appendix A
Self-similarities of references and
citations, and disciplinary
concentration in the AI and non-AI
corpora
This section focuses on the cognitive development of the research field associated with
the AI corpus (P ∩AI) and the non-AI one (P ∩AI), based on the same similarity
measure introduced in Section 4.1. We compute for each corpus two such measures
that could vary over time:
1. the temporal self-similarity of one given ranking r, namely the similarity between
this ranking at time t and the the same at the previous time t −1, denoted as
J(rt−1, rt); we apply it for references’ and citations’ rankings in each corpus,
2. the temporal disciplinary concentration of one corpus, namely the similarity
between its references ranking rR and its citations one rI at a given time t, denoted
as J(rR(t), rI(t)),
The evolution of these two indices are represented in Figs. A1A and A1B
respectively.
According to Fig. A1A, the references on which the AI corpus and the non-AI
one draw upon respectively (solid lines) are both consolidating with time toward their
highest respective values in 2017, but not at the same speed. Indeed, the non-AI
corpus lies on almost the same set of disciplines from year to year, while the AI-related
one grow from a low similarity in 1970 (around 50%) to a stable set with a high
similarity (around 90%) between 2015 and 2017. The observed decrease after 2017 is
mainly due to the lack of data grabbed by MAG. In addition, while the self-similarity
of citations in the corpus P ∩AI (blue dashed line) follow the same trend as its
corresponding self-similarity of references, the self-similarity of citations in the corpus
P ∩AI (purple dashed line) is rather chaotic and varying around 50% between 1970
and the late 1990s, then it increases toward around 80% until 2019. This means that
the short-term impacted fields in the two corpora are also consolidating toward rather
the same ones in recent days. More precisely, Fig. A1B shows a growing concentration
28

of references’ and impact’s rankings inside each corpus over the time period under
study, ie. the impacted disciplines and those appearing in references become more
and more similar, hence a research inspired by itself toward itself. This shows also
the progressive disciplinary homogenisation of the two corpora P ∩AI and P ∩AI
independently, and therefore a consolidation of the entire field of neuroscience.
Fig. A1 A: Temporal self-similarity of disciplinary rankings associated with either the references of
one specific corpus (R) or the citations it has received (I), either for the AI-related corpus (P ∩AI)
or for the non-AI one (P ∩AI). More precisely, one point at time t is the similarity between the
ranking at time t and the former one at t −1. B: Instantaneous similarity between the references
used by one corpus and its produced citational impact.
Appendix B
Disciplinary composition of the
common interest area of the
AI-related and non-AI corpora
This section focuses on the disciplines inside the common interest area of the AI and
non-AI corpora defined in Section 4.2. According to Fig. 6 in the main text, each
discipline d appearing in the references and/or in the citations of these corpora is
located in a 2D space by the coordinates (rd
P∩AI, rd
P∩AI) associated with its respective
ranks in the AI and non-AI corpora. From these coordinates we compute the distance
of the disciplines from the origin of the map (point with ranks (0,0)), denoted as ρ in
the following. Fig. B2 shows the evolution of this distance for some disciplines, which
are here exhibiting the most significant variations (increasing or decreasing) over the
years since the 1970s.
This figure shows especially a spectacular rise since around 1995 of the references’
rankings associated with Radiology and Neuroimaging in both AI and non-AI corpora,
as well as a growing impact of neuroscience articles published in this period on these
disciplines. This trend thus testifies to the diffusion of these technologies in scientific
and medical practices associated with neuroscience.
29

100
101
102
ρ
Reference
Linguistics
Anatomy & Morphology
Pharmacology & Pharmacy
Cell Biology
Physiology
Neuroimaging
Radiology
1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2020
t
100
101
102
ρ
Impact
Cell Biology
Physiology
Pharmacology & Pharmacy
Neuroimaging
Radiology
Fig. B2 Time evolution of the distance ρ of the disciplines included in the common interest area,
as defined and shown in Fig. 6. Only the most significant curves are highlighted with colors.
30

Appendix C
Web of Science categories’
abbreviations table
WOS Categories
Abbreviations
Acoustics
Acoustics
Anatomy & Morphology
A&M
Anesthesiology
Anesth
Anthropology
Anthropo
Automation & Control Systems
A&CS
Biophysics
BioPhys
Biochemical Research Method
BRM
Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology
Biotech
Cardiac & Cardiovascular System
Cardio
Chemistry
Chem
Computer Science
CS
Critical Care Medicine
CCM
Dentistry
Dentistry
Developmental Biology
DB
Ecology
Ecology
Education
Educ
Endocrinology & Metabolism
E&M
Engineering
Engineering
Entomology
Entomo
Ergonomics
Ergo
Gastroenterology & Hepatology
G&H
Genetics & Heredity
Genetics
Geriatrics & Gerontology
G&G
Hematology
Hemato
Imaging Science & Photographic Technology
IS&PT
Immunology
Immuno
Instruments & Instrumentation
Instrum
Language & Linguistics
L&L
Mathematical & Computational Biology
M&CB
Mathematics
Maths
Mechanics
Mech
Medical Informatics
MI
Medical Laboratory Technology
MLT
Microbiology
Microbio
Microscopy
Microscopy
Neuroimaging
NI
Nutrition & Dietetics
N&D
Operations Research & Management Science
OR&MS
Optics
Optics
Otorhinolaryngology
Otorhino
Pathology
Patho
Pediatrics
Ped
Peripheral Vascular Diseases
PVD
Philosophy
Philo
Physics
Phys
Plant Sciences
Plant
Public, Environmental & Occupational Health
Public Health
Radiology
Radio
Rehabilitation
Rehab
Social Sciences
SocSci
Sport Sciences
Sport
Statistics & Probability
S&P
Substance Abuse
SA
Telecommunications
Telecom
Toxicology
Toxico
Virology
Viro
Zoology
Zoology
31

Appendix D
Temporal evolution of the
inter-quartile collaboration network
Fig. D3 Evolution of the z-score matrix of the share of edges between fAI quartiles. The first line,
corresponding to the period 1970-1987, refers to the situation where the quartile Q2 has not yet
emerged in our dataset. The separation of Q and the other quartiles Qi’s occurs qualitatively in the
period 1988-1997, when Q2 was emerging and was beginning to publish in neuroscience. The ending
period spanning from 1998-2010, which concentrates 91% of the 13,786,616 unweighted single edges
in the temporal collaboration network TCN, is very similar to the configuration shown in the main
text, especially in Fig. 13 which was computed on the basis of all the period 1970-2019.
32

References
Andler, D. (1990). Connexionnisme et cognition: `A la recherche des bonnes questions.
Revue de Synth`ese, 111(1-2), 95–127,
Arencibia-Jorge, R., Vega-Almeida, R.L., Jim´enez Andrade, J.L., Carrillo-Calvet, H.
(2022).
Evolution and Multidisciplinarity of Artificial Intelligence Research.
Scientometrics, 127(2), 1–20,
Baruffaldi, S., van Beuzekom, B., Dernis, H., Harhoff, D., Rao, N., Rosenfeld, D.,
Squicciarini, M. (2020). Identifying and measuring developments in artificial
intelligence: Making the impossible possible. (OECD Science, Technology and
Industry Working Papers)
Bianchini, S., M¨uller, M., Pelletier, P. (2022). Artificial intelligence in science: An
emerging general method of invention. Research Policy, 51(10), ,
Cardon, D., Cointet, J.-P., Mazi`eres, A. (2018). Neurons spike back. The invention
of inductive machines and the artificial intelligence controversy (L. Carey-
Libbrecht, Trans.). R´eseaux, 211(5), 173–220,
Cooper, R.P., & Shallice, T. (2010). Cognitive Neuroscience: The Troubled Marriage of
Cognitive Science and Neuroscience. Topics in Cognitive Science, 2(3), 398–406,
Frank, M.R., Wang, D., Cebrian, M., Rahwan, I. (2019). The evolution of citation
graphs in artificial intelligence research. Nature Machine Intelligence, 1(2), 79–
85,
F¨arber, M. (2019). The Microsoft Academic Knowledge Graph: A Linked Data Source
with 8 Billion Triples of Scholarly Data. C. Ghidini et al. (Eds.), The Semantic
Web – ISWC 2019 (Vol. 11779, pp. 113–129). Springer International Publishing.
F¨arber, M. (2020). Microsoft Academic Graph records. (Available at https://zenodo
.org/record/3936556)
Gao, J., & Wang, D.
(2023).
Quantifying the benefit of artificial intelligence for
scientific research. (Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.10578)
Gargiulo, F., Caen, A., Lambiotte, R., Carletti, T. (2016). The classical origin of
modern mathematics. EPJ Data Science, 5(1), 26,
33

Gargiulo, F., Fontaine, S., Dubois, M., Tubaro, P. (2023). A meso-scale cartography
of the AI ecosystem. Quantitative Science Studies, 4(3), 574–593,
Gopinath, N. (2023). Artificial intelligence and neuroscience: An update on fascinating
relationships. Process Biochemistry, 125, 113–120,
Haas, P.M. (1992). Introduction: Epistemic Communities and International Policy
Coordination. International Organization, 46(1), 1–35,
Hassabis, D., Kumaran, D., Summerfield, C., Botvinick, M. (2017). Neuroscience-
Inspired Artificial Intelligence. Neuron, 95(2), 245–258,
Hentschel, K. (2015). A periodization of research technologies and of the emergency of
genericity. Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, 52, 223–233,
Kauffman, S.A. (2000). Investigations. Oxford University Press.
Lake, B.M., Ullman, T.D., Tenenbaum, J.B., Gershman, S.J.
(2017).
Building
Machines That Learn and Think Like People. Behavioral and Brain Sciences,
40(e253), 1–72,
Liu, N., Shapira, P., Yue, X.
(2021).
Tracking developments in artificial intelli-
gence research: constructing and applying a new search strategy. Scientometrics,
126(4), 3153–3192,
Marcovich, A., & Shinn, T. (2020). Science research regimes as architectures of knowl-
edge in context: A ‘longue dur´ee’ comparative historical sociology of structures
and dynamics in science. Social Science Information, 59(2), 310–328,
McCarthy, J. (1981). Epistemological Problems of Artificial Intelligence. Readings in
Artificial Intelligence (pp. 459–465). Elsevier.
Monechi, B., Ruiz-Serrano, ˜A., Tria, F., Loreto, V. (2017). Waves of novelties in the
expansion into the adjacent possible. Plos One, 12(6), ,
Perconti, P., & Plebe, A. (2020). Deep learning and cognitive science. Cognition, 203,
12,
34

Roth, C. (2008). R´eseaux ´epist´emiques : formaliser la cognition distribu´ee. Sociologie
du Travail, 50(3), 353–371,
Savage, N.
(2019).
How AI and neuroscience drive each other forwards.
Nature,
571(7766), 15–17,
Schuchmann, S.
(2019).
History of the Second AI Winter.
(Medium. https://
towardsdatascience.com/history-of-the-second-ai-winter-406f18789d45
(visited
on 2023-04-13))
Sedooka, A., Steffen, G., Paulsen, T., Darbellay, F.
(2015).
Paradoxe identitaire
et interdisciplinarit´e : un regard sur les identit´es disciplinaires des chercheurs.
Natures Sciences Soci´et´es, 23(4), 367–377,
Shinn, T., & Joerges, B. (2002). The Transverse Science and Technology Culture:
Dynamics and Roles of Research-Technology. Social Science Information, 41(2),
207–251,
Tang, X., Li, X., Ma, F. (2022). Internationalizing AI: evolution and impact of distance
factors. Scientometrics, 127(1), 181–205,
Visser, M., Van Eck, N.J., Waltman, L.
(2021).
Large-scale comparison of bib-
liographic data sources: Scopus, Web of Science, Dimensions, Crossref, and
Microsoft Academic. Quantitative Science Studies, 2(1), 20–41,
Wainer, J., Eckmann, M., Goldenstein, S., Rocha, A. (2013). How productivity and
impact differ across computer science subareas. Communications of the ACM ,
56(8), 67–73,
35
