warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://aclanthology.org/2020.findings-emnlp.158.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: abstract|feature|diversity|network|predict|AUC|accuracy|field (164 matches in 49108 chars)

--- Content ---

573:...rpora
Hancheng Cao∗
Stanford University
hanchcao@stanford.edu
Mengjie Cheng∗
Harvard Business School
macheng@hbs.edu
Zhepeng Cen∗
Carnegie Mellon University
zcen@andrew.cmu.edu
Daniel A. McFarland
Stanford University
dmcfarla@stanford.edu
Xiang Ren
University of Southern California
xiangren@usc.edu
Abstract
What kind of basic research ideas are more
likely to get applied in practice? There is a
long line of research investigating patterns of
knowledge transfer, but it generally focuses on
documents as the unit of analysis and follow
their transfer into practice for a speciﬁc sci-
entiﬁc domain.
Here we study translational
research at the level of scientiﬁc concepts for
all scientiﬁc ﬁelds. We do this through text
mining and predictive modeling using three
corpora: 38.6 million paper abstracts, 4 mil-
lion patent documents, and 0.28 million clini-
cal trials. We extract scientiﬁc concepts (i.e.,
phrases) from corpora as instantiations of “re-
search ideas", create concept-level features
as motivated by literature, and then follow
the trajectories of over 450,000 new concepts
(emerged from 1995-2014) to identify factors
that lead only a small proportion of these ideas
to be used in inventions and drug trials. Re-
sults from our analysis suggest several mech-
anisms that distinguish which scientiﬁc con-
cept will be adopted in practice, and which
will not.
We also demonstrate that our de-
rived features can be used to explain and pre-
dict knowledge transfer with high accuracy.
Our work provides greater understanding of
knowledge transfer for researchers, practition-
ers, and government agencies interested in en-
couraging translational research.
1
Introduction
Science generates a myriad of new ideas, only
some of which ﬁnd value in practical uses (Backer,
1991; Lane and...
--
2482:...e hopes that it will span
the research-practice divide so as to generate pri-
vate sector advances in technologies (Narin and
∗Equal contribution
Figure 1: An illustration of scientiﬁc concept’s “knowl-
edge transfer" from basic research to practice use: we
analyze individual concept’s time-varying features (e.g., pop-
ularity) and relative positions with other concepts (i.e., co-
occurrence) to understand the key mechanisms behind knowl-
edge transfer, using Web of Science research papers, USPTO
patents and clinical trial documents.
Noma, 1985), social policies (McDonald and Mair,
2010), and pharmac...
--
5667:...erm or set of terms that have semanti-
cally coherent usage and reﬂect scientiﬁc entities
– e.g., curricula, tools, programs, ideas, theories,
substances, methods, processes, and propositions,
which are argued to be the basic units of scientiﬁc
discovery and advance (Toulmin). We use the titles
and abstracts of 38.6 million academic publications
from the Web of Science (WoS) to identify 0.45
million new scientiﬁc concepts emerging between
1995 to 2014 through state of the art phrase mining
techniques (AutoPhrase), and follow their trajec-
tories in 4 million patent documents of the United
States Paten...
--
6617:...cepts
Internet, world wide web,
ethnographic exploration,
interactive visualization, web server,
immersive virtual reality,
gpu, recombinant protein production,
european maize,
hcci engine, cloud service,
institutional demand,
artiﬁcial magnetic conductor
automatic imitation,
multifunctional enzym,
network reorganization,
tissue remodeling,
human capital,
single photon detector
amercian theatre
new scientiﬁc concepts that successfully transfer
into patents with those that did not. We ﬁnd that
(a) the intrinsic properties of ideas and their tempo-
ral behavior, and (b) relative position of the ideas
a...
--
7548:...ge in interdisciplinary venues
over time, are early signs of impending knowledge
transfer into technological inventions. Finally, we
ﬁnd that new concepts positioned close to concepts
that already transferred into patents are far more
likely to transfer than their counterparts. Based on
the derived features, we further built model to pre-
dict the likelihood of knowledge transfer from pa-
pers to patents/clinical trials at individual concept
level, and demonstrated our derived feature can
achieve great performance, indicating that our pro-
posed features can explain majority of the knowl-
edge transfer cases.
Contributions Our main contributions are summa-
rized as follows: (1) To the best of our knowledge,
we present the ﬁrst ever research that aims at under-
standing knowledge transfer at a large scale, using
multiple corpora. (2) We are the ﬁrs...
--
8438:...iques to understand transfer on
scientiﬁc concept level, rather than document level.
(3) We systematically analyzed the differences be-
tween transferable and non-transferable concepts,
and identiﬁed the key mechanisms behind knowl-
edge transfer. We showed our derived insights can
help explain and predict knowledge transfer with
high accuracy.
2
Data Preparation and Processing
In this section we introduce the dataset used in our
study (Sec. 2.1), and present the concept extraction
process (Sec. 2.2).

1748
2.1
Collection of Text Corpora
Research Papers from WoS. We used scientiﬁc
concepts extracted from Web of Science (WoS)
as represent...
--
10066:...nal science from research to practice (Ah-
madpoor and Jones, 2017). Moreover, we have
tried our best to mitigate such bias by investigating
transfer patterns in both patent-heavy and patent-
light ﬁelds, where we found very similar patterns
emerge.
2.2
Scientiﬁc Concept Extraction
Using titles and abstracts of articles, patents and
clinical trials, we employ phrase detection tech-
nique AutoPhrase (Shang et al., 2018), to identify
key concepts in the two corpora and trace their
emergence and transfer across domains over time.
Phrase detection identiﬁes 1,471,168 concepts for
research papers, 316,442 ...
--
12183:...wledge transfer via these new
scientiﬁc concepts, and ﬁnd only ∼2.7% of all con-
cepts get transferred to patent, and only ∼11.3%
of bio & health concepts get transferred to clinical
trials across years. The number of transferred con-
cepts each year from WoS to USPTO is illustrated
in Fig. 2(b).
3
Feature Creation and Analysis
Based on the concepts extracted from research pa-
pers, patent and clinical trial documents, we ﬁrst
create concept level features as motivated by prior
literature on knowledge diffusion, and present a
large-scale data analysis on transferred and non-
transferred concepts to better understand properties
facilitating the knowledge transfer process. Here
we present transfer patterns from research paper to
patent and omit clinical trial due to page limit 3.
3.1
Intrinsic Properties of Concepts
Motivated by previous works on knowledge dif-
fusion and transfer, we extracted intrinsic concept
features that would most likely facilitate a scientiﬁc
idea’s transfer into technological inventions, which
can be classiﬁed into four categories: 1) hype fea-
tures (Latour, 1987; Rossiter, 1993), 2) bridge posi-
tioning features (Shi et al., 2010; Kim et al., 2017),
3) ideational conditions (Berger and Heath, 2005),
and 4) technological resonance (Narin and Noma,
3We ﬁnd very similar transfer patterns emerge from re-
search paper to clinical trial.

1749
1985)4. The four sets of features represent the char-
acteristic of individual concept from diverse angles,
and as we will show signify the differences between
transferred and non-transferred concepts, both in
mean value (Appendix E) and temporal behavior.
To illustrate concepts’ temporal behavior over
time, we plot the feature cu...
--
[144 more matches not shown]
