warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: http://cluster.ischool.drexel.edu/~cchen/papers/2012/jasist2012-predictive.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: incidence rate|strongest predictor|cluster linkage is|modularity change rate|interdisciplin|diffus (39 matches in 90932 chars)

--- Content ---

1471:...ure of the state of the art. The structural varia-
tion approach focuses on the novel boundary-spanning
connections introduced by a new article to the intellec-
tual space. We validate the role of boundary-spanning in
predicting future citations using three metrics of struc-
tural variation—namely, modularity change rate, cluster
linkage, and Centrality Divergence—along with more
commonly studied predictors of citations such as the
number of coauthors, the number of cited references,
and the number of pages. Main effects of these factors
are estimated for ﬁve cases using zero-inﬂated negative
binomial regression mo...
--
2266:...ly studied variables such
as the number of references cited, (b) the number of
coauthors and the number of references are both good
predictors of global citation counts to a lesser extent,
and (c) the Centrality Divergence metric is potentially
valuable for detecting boundary-spanning activities at
interdisciplinary levels.The structural variation approach
offers a new way to monitor and discern the potential
of newly published papers in context. The boundary-
spanning mechanism offers a conceptually simpliﬁed
Received September 1, 2011; revised October 3, 2011; accepted October 5,
2011
© 2011 ASIS&T • Publ...
--
4651:...gy, experts’ opinions were found
to be overly optimistic with hindsight (Tichy, 2004). The
increasing specialization in today’s scientiﬁc community
makes it unrealistic to expect an expert to have a compre-
hensive body of knowledge concerning multiple key aspects
of a subject matter, especially in interdisciplinary research
areas.
© 2011 ASIS&T • Published online 14 November 2011 in Wiley Online 
Library (wileyonlinelibrary. com). DOI: 10.1002/asi.21694
JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, 63(3):431–449, 2012

432
JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE AN...
--
24133:...s-
tering in citation networks. In the ﬁrst stage, core clusters
are formed, followed by the formation of peripheral clus-
ters and the continuous growth of the core clusters. Finally,
the core clusters’growth again becomes predominant. Buter,
Noyons, and van Raan (2011) studied the emergence of an
interdisciplinary research area from ﬁelds that had not shown
interdisciplinary connections before. They used journal sub-
ject categories as a proxy for ﬁelds and citations as a measure
of interdisciplinary connection.
Lahiri, Maiya, Sulo, Habiba, and Wolf (2008) addressed
how structural changes of a network may inﬂuence the spread
of information over the network.Although they did not study
bibliographic networks, per se, their study has indicated that

435
JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFOR...
--
41010:...nformation provided by a particular article. In
this article, we introduce three metrics of structural variation.
Each metric quantiﬁes the degree of change in the baseline
network introduced by information provided by an article.
No usage data are involved in the measurement. The three
metrics are modularity change rate, intercluster linkage, and
Centrality Divergence. The deﬁnitions of the ﬁrst two metrics
dependonapartitionofthebaselinenetwork,butthethirdone
does not. A partition of a network decomposes the network
into nonoverlapping groups of nodes. For example, clustering
algorithms such as spectral clusterin...
--
43202:...or the selection of candidate con-
nections. For example, the structural hole theory developed
in social network analysis emphasizes the special potential of
nodes that are strategically positioned to form brokerage, or
boundary-spanning, links and create good ideas (Burt, 2004;
Chen et al., 2009).
Modularity Change Rate
Given a partition of a network (i.e., a conﬁguration of
clusters), the modularity of the network measures the degree
of interconnectivity among the groups of nodes identiﬁed
by the partition. If different clusters are loosely connected,
then the overall modularity would be high. In contrast, if
clu...
--
44353:...ng to the same cluster and 0 otherwise. deg(ni) is the
degree of node ni. The range of Q(G) is between −1 and 1.
Q(G, C) = 1
2m
n

i,j=0
[δ(ci, cj) · (A]ij −deg(ni) · deg(nj)
2m

The modularity of a network is a measure of the overall struc-
ture of the network. Its range is between −1 and 1. The
modularity change rate (MCR) of a scientiﬁc paper measures
the relative structural change due to the information from the
published paper with reference to a baseline network. For
each article a, and a baseline network Gbaseline, we deﬁne the
MCR as follows:
MCR(a) = Q(Gbaseline, C) −Q(Gbaseline⊕Ga, C)
Q(Gbaseline, C)
· ...
--
48891:...ks, which is the opposite of how the modularity
metric is deﬁned. The new metric Linkage is the sum of all

440
JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY—March 2012
DOI: 10.1002/asi
FIG. 3.
The depth and breadth of novel connections made by two articles with the highest modularity change rate. Both are review articles. Barilan 2008
(left) cited references in recent years within a relatively small number of clusters whereas Morris 2008 (right) cited many earlier publications across a wider
range of clusters. [Color ﬁgure can be viewed in the online version, which is available at wiley.co...
--
50072:... is to multiple each eij
by √(size(c↓i) · size(c↓j))/ max(size(c↓ki)). In this article,
the metric is deﬁned without such modiﬁcations for simplic-
ity. Suppose that C is a partition of G; then the Linkage metric
is deﬁned as follows:
Linkage(G, C) =
n
i̸=j λijeij
K
λij =
0,
ni ∈cj
1,
ni̸ ∈cj
The Cluster Linkage is deﬁned as the difference of Link-
age before and after new between-clusters links added by an
article a.
CL(a) = Linkage(a)
= Linkage(Gbaseline ⊕Ga,C)−Linkage(Gbaseline, C)
Linkage(G + G) is always greater than or equal to Link-
age(G). Thus, CL is nonnegative.
Centrality Divergence
The Centralit...
--
53410:... with lower AIC scores are regarded
as better models in terms of the relative goodness of ﬁt.
In this article, we focus on global citation counts of scien-
tiﬁc publications recorded in the Web of Science. NB models
are deﬁned as follows using log as the link function.
Global citations ∼Coauthors + Modularity Change Rate
+ Cluster Linkage + Centrality Divergence
+ References + Pages.
Global citations is the dependent variable. Coauthors is
a factor of three levels of 1, 2, and 3. Level 3 is assigned to
articles with three or more coauthors. Coauthors is an indi-
rect indicator of the extent to which an article synt...
--
[27 more matches not shown]
