warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://sci2s.ugr.es/sites/default/files/ficherosPublicaciones/1321_mjcobo-joi-2010.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: emerging or declining|motor themes|basic and transversal|highly developed|density|centrality (25 matches in 75271 chars)

--- Content ---

24351:...ss for tuning the parameters is needed. A group of experts in the research ﬁeld under study is useful in
order to carry out a feedback process to estimate the best parameter conﬁguration that allows us to detect the main themes
of the ﬁeld.
Two measures can represent the detected networks: Callon’s centrality, and Callon’s density.
Callon’s centrality, to be referred to as centrality henceforth, measures the degree of interaction of a network with other
networks (Callon et al., 1991) and it can be deﬁned as: c = 10 ×
ekh, with k a keyword belonging to the theme and h a
keyword belonging to other themes. Centrality measures the strength of external ties to other themes. We can understand
this value as a measure of the importance of a theme in the development of the entire research ﬁeld analyzed.
Callon’s density, to be referred to as density henceforth, measures the internal strength of the network (Callon et al., 1991)
and it can be deﬁned as: d = 100(
eij/w), with i and j keywords belonging to the theme and w the number of keywords
in the theme. Density measures the strength of internal ties among all keywords describing the research theme. This value
can be understood as a measure of the theme’s development.
3.2. Visualizing themes and thematic networks
When co-word analysis is used for mapping science, clusters of keywords (and their interconnections) are obtained.
These clusters are considered as themes.
Each research theme obtained in this process is characterized by two parameters (“density” and “centrality”). Both median
and mean values for density and centrality can be used in classifying themes into four groups (Cahlik, 2000; Callon et al.,
1991; Courtial & Michelet, 1994; Coulter et al., 1998; He, 1999). So a research ﬁeld can be understood to be a set of research
themes, mapped in a two-dimensional space.
A Strategic Diagram is a two-dimensional space built by plotting themes according to their centrality and density rank
values (if we use median for classifying clusters) or values (if we use mean) along two axis, x-axis centrality, y-axis density.
Strategic diagrams with rank values are used more commonly than ones with values, because of their legibility (Cahlik,
2000). As an example, in Fig. 1a a strategic diagram is presented.
We can ﬁnd four kinds of themes (Cahlik, 2000; Callon et al., 1991; Courtial & Michelet, 1994; Coulter et al., 1998; He,
1999) according to the quadrant in which they are placed:
• Themes in the upper-right quadrant are both well developed and important for the structuring of a research ﬁeld. They are
known as the motor-themes of the specialty, given that they present strong centrality and high density. The placement of
themes in this quadrant implies that they are related externally to concepts applicable to other themes that are conceptually
closely related.
• Themes in the upper-left quadrant have well developed internal ties but unimportant external ties and so are of only
marginal importance for the ﬁeld. These themes are very specialized and peripheral in character.
• Themes in the lower-left quadrant are both weakly developed and marginal. The themes of this quadrant have low density
and low centrality, mainly representing either emerging or disappearing themes.

M.J. Cobo et al. / Journal of Informetrics 5 (2011) 146–166
151
Fig. 1. The strategic diagram and thematic network.
• Themes in the lower-right quadrant are important for a research ﬁeld but are not developed. So, this quadrant groups
tr...
--
[5 more matches not shown]
