warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w10901/w10901.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: generality (68 matches in 69212 chars)

--- Content ---

1036:... O330, O310, L860
ABSTRACT
This paper asks the question: Can we see evidence of General Purpose Technologies in patent data?
Using data on three million US patents granted between 1967 and 1999, and their citations received
between 1975 and 2002, we construct a number of measures of GPTs, including generality, number
of citations, and patent class growth, for patents themselves and for the patents that cite the patents.
A selection of the top twenty patents in the tails of the distribution of several of these measures
yields a set of mostly ICT technologies, of which the most important are those underly...
--
17139:...l, Computers and Communications (C&C), Drugs 
and Medical (D&M), Electrical and Electronics (E&E), Mechanical, and Others. 

Hall-Trajtenberg 
 
October  2004 
 
 
 
9 
all). Thus our patents are 37 times more likely to be cited than predicted by the average 
probability.  
Table 1 about here 
3.1 
Generality 
Observation (1) above suggests the use of a measure that is similar to the 
Trajtenberg, Jaffe, and Henderson ‘Generality’ measure, which is defined in the 
following way: 
2
1
≡
= −∑
in
i
ij
j
Generality
G
s 
where sij denotes the percentage of citations received by patent i that belong to patent 
class j, out of ni patent classes (note that the sum is the Herfindahl concentration index). 
Thus, if a patent is cited by subsequent patents that belong to a wide range of fields the 
measure will be high, whereas if most citations are concentrated in a few fields it will be 
low (close to zero).9  
Point (2) suggests that even if Generality is relatively high, the absolute number 
of citations should also be high, implying that there may still be a large number of 
citations in the patent’s own technology class. It also suggests that ‘second-generation’ 
citations be examined. We implement this using two variables, the average number of 
citations to the citing patents, and the average generality of the citing patent.  
In actual measurement, the preceding two predictions interact in ways which 
make our task a bit more complex. Like patents, citation counts are a discrete random 
variable bounded below by zero. This means that fewer citations in total imply that 
fewer classes will be observed to have citations than should be observed were the total 
                                                 
9 Note that Generality is not defined if a patent receives no citations, and is zero by construction when a 
patent receives only one. We have omitted such patents in the tables and graphs shown in this paper. They 
comprise about one quarter of all patents in our sample. 

Hall-Trajtenberg 
 
October  2004 
 
 
 
10 
number of citations larger. That is, ni is biased downward by the fact that fractional 
citations are not observed, and Generality will tend to be lower when there are fewer 
citations. This is quite visible in the graph of average Generality over time shown in 
Figure 1, where we show two different versions of Generality, one based on US patent 
classes, and another based on the International Patent Classification, as assigned to these 
patents by the USPTO. Note that the average of either Generality measures begins to 
decline fairly steeply in 1993-95, at the same time as our measure of average citations 
per patent turns down sharply due to the effects of lag truncation (see Figure 2). In this 
case, this is a spurious rather than real decline in Generality, due to the fact that our 
patent grant data ends in 2002, and therefore our application-dated data around 1999, so 
that patents in the years after about 1994 have had less chance to receive citations.10  
Figures 1 and 2 about here 
Using a simple binomial model of the probability of observing a ...
--
[56 more matches not shown]
