warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.07994
Type: PDF
Pattern: fields|disciplines|diffus|spread|more widely|% (57 matches in 37207 chars)

--- Content ---

1026:...han 3 million articles across science published between 1980 and 2019, we find that science has 
undergone a fundamental structural transition. The share of papers that primarily contribute new 
methods—methods papers—has doubled across science over the past four decades, rising 
universally across disciplines and citation impact levels. Rather than a gradual evolution, this 
transition marks a pivotal shift beginning in the early 1990s, aligning with the computational 
revolution and the emergence of data-intensive science. The surge in methodological research is 
not confined to the most cited, elite p...
--
3721:... papers across the entire range of scientific impact. Using 
a cross-validated machine-learning classifier applied to over 3 million papers in Web of Science 
(WoS, Clarivate) and Scopus (Elsevier) between 1980 and 2019, we identify and track the 
prevalence of methods‑focused research across time, disciplines and citation strata (see 
Methods and data section). This enables analysing how the landscape of scientific knowledge 
is shifting. We first examine the prevalence of methods papers and whether they extend beyond 
the scientific elite to ‘ordinary science’ that constitutes the bulk of scientific literature. We then 
trace the evolution of methods papers over time and across different citation strata to determine 
whether and when a structural shift occurred. We finally assess the universality of the transition 
across diverse disciplines. 
Our analysis reveals that science has undergone a major structural transition. We find that 
the share of methods papers doubled over the past four decades, rising from roughly 20% to 
40% of all published research. This shift is visible not only among the most cited papers—
where methods papers have long been dominant—but across the full distribution of scientific 
impact, including the vast majority of papers that receive less attention. Viewing this 
‘methodization’ of science sol...
--
5182:...of methods is not a gradual evolution 
but marks a pivotal transition in the early 1990s, coinciding with the computational revolution 
and the emergence of data-intensive science. While the precise timing varies, the dominance 
and reorientation towards methods-focused research is universal across disciplines, from 
natural sciences to engineering and technology. 
Important implications emerge. Conceptually, these findings challenge the traditional 
dichotomy between theory and empirical research: they underscore that widely reusable 
methods—which can often transfer across fields—have become essential infrastructure to 
achieve scientific advances. Strategically, the scientific community needs to recalibrate its 
attention and resources to value the methodological infrastructure underlying scientific 
advances. Science policy, funding mechanisms and career structures need t...
--
6389:...’ outliers, we stratified over 3 million papers by citation impact. 
We find that methods papers are not confined to the scientific elite, but are ubiquitous across 

3 
 
the entire scientific landscape (Fig. 1). Across both WoS and Scopus datasets, methods papers 
consistently represent between 30% and 50% of publications at every citation level—whether 
they belong to the top 1% of cited papers or to the broad base of everyday research. This 
challenges the view that method papers are only significant when they become ‘citation classics’ 
but they actually represent a foundational component of research output at every level of 
impact. 
 
 
Figure 1. Share of methods papers across five stratified citation levels, ranging from the top 1% (highest citation 
impact, normalised by discipline and year) to the bottom 1% (lowest). Data is shown for Web of Science (left) and 
Scopus (right) for all years between 1980 and 2019. 
 
The great acceleration of the early 1990s. Our analysis reveals a stark structural transition 
in how scientific knowledge is produced over time. Between 1980 and 2019, the share of 
method...
--
[45 more matches not shown]
