warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1011.3120
Type: PDF
Pattern: local|global|diffusion (75 matches in 67374 chars)

--- Content ---

4:The Local Emergence and Global Diffusion of Research Technologies:   
An Exploration of Patterns of Network Formation  
Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology (in press) 
 
Loet Leydesdorff 1 & Ismael Rafols 2 
 
Abstract 
Grasping the fruits of “emerging technologies” is an objective of many government 
priority programs in a knowledge-based and globalizing economy. We use the 
publication records (in the Science Citation Index) of two emerging technologies to study 
the mechanisms of diffusion in the case of two innovation trajectories: small interference 
RNA (siRNA) and nano-crystalline solar cells (NCSC). Methods for analyzing and 
visualizing geographical and cognitive diffusion are specified as indicators of different 
dynamics. Geographical diffusion is illustrated with overlays to Google Maps; cognitive 
diffusion is mapped using an overlay to a map based on the ISI Subject Categories. The 
evolving geographical networks show both preferential attachment and small-world 
characteristics. The strength of preferential attachment decreases over time, while the 
network evolves into an oligopolistic control structure with small-world characteristics. 
The transition from disciplinary-oriented (“mode-1”) to transfer-oriented (“mode-2”) 
research is suggested as the crucial difference in explaining the different rates of 
diffusion between siRNA and NCSC. 
 
Keywords: diffusion, emergence, research-technology, map, geographical, 
interdisciplinarity, innovation 
                                                 
1 Amsterdam School of Communication Research (ASCoR), University of Amsterdam, Kloveniersburgwal 
48, 1012 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands; loet@leydesdorff.net 
2 S...
--
3394:...e: Can one still jump on the bandwagon once a new technology has taken off? Are 
there first-mover advantages? Such strategic questions have hitherto not been answered 
unambiguously by science, technology, and innovation research because the interactions 
among the various subdynamics (production, diffusion, markets) are nonlinear, probably 
technology-specific, and poorly understood (Debackere & Clarysse, 1998; Leydesdorff & 
Van den Besselaar, 1994; Vishwanat & Chen, 2006). Do new technologies emerge in 
 
2

critical configurations, “transdisciplinarily” in industrial or academic environments 
(Gib...
--
5206:...ies based on Germany, Weingart and his colleagues 
questioned whether processes of cognitive and technological development could be 
steered by government agencies otherwise than contextually (Van den Daele et al., 1977 
and 1979). The self-organizing dynamics of markets and sciences develop at the global 
level, while governance can perhaps organize conditions for retention only at the local 
level. However, effective retention by reflexive policy makers assumes detailed 
 
3

knowledge of the relevant dynamics and their potential synergies (Beccattini et al., 2003; 
Bonaccorsi, 2008). Do science and technology develop together as in a tango (Price, 
1984)? How can government and/or ma...
--
6171:...r (nonlinear) “translation” 
from one context to another are important mechanisms because knowledge and skills 
have to be packaged before they can move across interfaces or from one place to another 
(Latour, 1987, at p. 227). This packaging entails encoding. Codification of knowledge 
enables its globalization since knowledge can then be communicated (Foray, 2004; 
Leydesdorff, 2006). Emerging knowledge-based technologies “conquer the world” by 
processes of diffusion (Rogers, 1962). However, diffusion has not only a geographical, 
but also a cognitive component. The new technologies spread world-wide, but thereafter 
“the world” itself may have changed. For example, the use of the internet changed 
“distance” as a concept in communication. The meanings of the t...
--
[60 more matches not shown]
