warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://aclanthology.org/P16-1111.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: method|rise|fall|decline|predict (87 matches in 44864 chars)

--- Content ---

191:Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1170–1180,
Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016. c⃝2016 Association for Computational Linguistics
Predicting the Rise and Fall of Scientiﬁc Topics from Trends in their
Rhetorical Framing
Vinodkumar Prabhakaran
Stanford University
vinod@cs.stanford.edu
William L. Hamilton
Stanford University
wleif@stanford.edu
Dan McFarland
Stanford University
dmcfarla@stanford.edu
Dan Jurafsky
Stanford University
jurafsky@stanford.edu
Abstract
Computationally modeling the evolution
of science by tracking how scientiﬁc top-
ics rise and fall over time has important
implications for research funding and pub-
lic policy. However, little is known about
the mechanisms underlying topic growth
and decline.
We investigate the role of
rhetorical framing: whether the rhetori-
cal role or function that authors ascribe
to topics (as methods, as goals, as results,
etc.) relates to the historical trajectory of
the topics. We train topic models and a
rhetorical function classiﬁer to map topic
models onto their rhetorical roles in 2.4
million abstracts from the Web of Science
from 1991-2010.
We ﬁnd that a topic’s
rhetorical function is highly predictive of
its eventual growth or decline. For exam-
ple, topics that are rhetorically described
as results tend to be in decline, while top-
ics that function as methods tend to be in
early phases of growth.
1
Introduction
One of the most compelling research questions in
the computational analysis of scientiﬁc literature
is whether the vast collections of scientiﬁc text
hold important clues about the dynamics involved
in the evolution of science; clues that may help
predict the rise and fall of scientiﬁc ideas, meth-
ods and even ﬁelds.
Being able to predict sci-
entiﬁc trends in advance could potentially revolu-
tionize the way science is done, for instance, by
enabling funding agencies to optimize allocation
of resources towards promising research areas.
Figure 1: Example abstract sn...
--
[73 more matches not shown]
