warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/kleinber/www11-hashtags.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: stickiness|persistence|political|idioms|complex contagion (100 matches in 56802 chars)

--- Content ---

69:Differences in the Mechanics of Information Diffusion
Across Topics: Idioms, Political Hashtags, and Complex
Contagion on Twitter
Daniel M. Romero
Cornell University
Ithaca, NY
dmr239@cornell.edu
Brendan Meeder
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA
bmeeder@cs.cmu.edu
Jon Kleinberg
Cornell University
Ithaca, NY
kleinber@cs.cornell.edu
ABSTRACT
There is a widespread intuitive sense...
--
960:..., analyzing the ways in
which tokens known as hashtags spread on a network deﬁned by
the interactions among Twitter users. We ﬁnd signiﬁcant variation
in the ways that widely-used hashtags on different topics spread.
Our results show that this variation is not attributable simply to
differences in “stickiness,” the probability of adoption based on one
or more exposures, but also to a quantity that could be viewed as a
kind of “persistence” — the relative extent to which repeated expo-
sures to a hashtag continue to have signiﬁcant marginal effects. We
ﬁnd that hashtags on politically controversial topics are particularly
persistent, with repeated exposures continuing to have unusually
large marginal effects on adoption; this provides, to our knowl-
edge, the ﬁrst large-scale validation of the “complex contagion”
principle from sociology, which posits that repeated exposures to
an idea are particularly crucial when the idea is in some way con-
troversial or contentious. Among other ﬁndings, we discover that
hashtags representing the natural analogues of Twitter idioms and
neologisms are particularly non-persistent, with the effect of mul-
tiple exposures decaying rapidly relative to the ﬁrst exposure.
We also study the subgraph structure of the initial adopters for
different widely-adopted hashtags, again ﬁnding structural differ-
ences across topics. We develop...
--
5005:...is
paper we analyze sources of variation in how the most widely-used
hashtags on Twitter spread within its user population. We ﬁnd that
these sources of variation involve not just differences in the prob-
ability with which something spreads from one person to another
— the quantitative analogue of stickiness — but also differences in
a quantity that can be viewed as a kind of “persistence,” the rela-
tive extent to which repeated exposures to a piece of information
continue to have signiﬁcant marginal effects on its adoption.
Moreover, these variations are aligned with the topic of the hash-
tag. For example, we ﬁnd that hashtags on politically controversial
topics are particularly persistent, with repeated exposures continu-
ing to have large relative effects on adoption; this provides, to our
knowledge, the ﬁrst large-scale validation of the “complex conta-
gion” principle from sociology, which posits that repeated expo-
sures to an i...
--
[90 more matches not shown]
