warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/kleinber/www11-hashtags.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: initial adopters|triangles|more densely|clustering|edges among (10 matches in 56802 chars)

--- Content ---

1924:...ial or contentious. Among other ﬁndings, we discover that
hashtags representing the natural analogues of Twitter idioms and
neologisms are particularly non-persistent, with the effect of mul-
tiple exposures decaying rapidly relative to the ﬁrst exposure.
We also study the subgraph structure of the initial adopters for
different widely-adopted hashtags, again ﬁnding structural differ-
ences across topics. We develop simulation-based and generative
models to analyze how the adoption dynamics interact with the net-
work structure of the early adopters on which a hashtag spreads.
Categories and Subject Descripto...
--
11528:...user doesn’t adopt an idiom after a small number of exposures,
the marginal chance they do so later falls off quickly.
Subgraph Structure and Tie Strength. In addition to the person-
to-person mechanics of spread, it is also interesting to look at the
overall structure of interconnections among the initial adopters of
a hashtag. To do this, we take the ﬁrst m individuals to mention
a particular hashtag H, and we study the structure of the subgraph
Gm induced on these ﬁrst m mentioners. In this structural con-
text, we again ﬁnd that political hashtags exhibit distinctive fea-
tures — in particular, the subgraphs Gm for political hashtags H
tend to exhibit higher internal degree, a greater density of triangles,
and a large of number of nodes not in Gm who have signiﬁcant
arising from this classiﬁcation are robust in the following sense:
despite differences in classiﬁcation of some individual hashtags by
the two groups, the curves themselves exhibit essentially identical
behavior when computed from either...
--
13969:...s, indicating the overall greater density of edges in political sub-
graphs comes more dominantly from a growth in weak ties than
from strong ones. The picture that emerges of early-adopter sub-
graphs for political hashtags is thus a subtle one: they are structures
whose communication patterns are more densely connected than
the early-adopter subgraphs for other hashtags, and this connectiv-
ity comes from a core of strong ties embedded in an even larger
profusion of weak ties.
Interpreting the Findings. When we look at politically contro-
versial topics on Twitter, we therefore see both direct reﬂection...
--
37816:...ose graphs.
In particular, we consider differences in the structures of the sub-
graphs Gm across different categories. For each graph Gm, across
all hashtags and a sequence of values of m, we compute several
structural parameters. First, we compute the average degree of the
nodes and the number of triangles in the graph. Then, we deﬁned
the border of Gm to be the set of all nodes not in Gm who have at
least one edge to a node in Gm, and we deﬁne the entering degree
of a node in the border to be the number of neighbors it has in Gm.
We consider the size of the border and the average entering degree
of ...
--
39249:...ompared to the average for all hashtags, using the sub-
graphs G500 on the ﬁrst 500 users.5 In brief, the early adopters of
a political hashtag message with more people, creating more tri-
angles, and with a border of people who have more links on av-
erage into the early adopter set. The number of triangles, in fact,
is high even given the high average degree; clearly one should ex-
pect a larger number of triangles in a subgraph of larger average
degree, but in fact the triangle count for political hashtags is high
even when compared against a baseline consisting of non-political
hashtags with comparable average degrees. These large numbers of
edges and triangles are consistent with the predictions of complex
contagion, which argues that such structural properties are impor-
tant for the spread of controversial topics [6].
Tie Strength. There is an interesting further aspect to these struc-
tural results, obtained by looking at the strength of the ties with...
--
[2 more matches not shown]
