warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://peerj.com/articles/cs-119.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: density|pace of collaboration|clique|collaboration (118 matches in 70818 chars)

--- Content ---

1536:...ted with a number of publications, is
still an open challenge. In this paper, we begin to address this challenge by performing
a study of the dynamics preceding the creation of new topics. This study indicates that
the emergence of a new topic is anticipated by a significant increase in the pace of
collaboration between relevant research areas, which can be seen as the ‘parents’ of the
new topic. These initial findings (i) confirm our hypothesis that it is possible in principle
to detect the emergence of a new topic at the embryonic stage, (ii) provide new empirical
evidence supporting relevant theories in...
--
4793:... paradigm
shifts. According to him, scientific work is performed within a set of paradigms and when
these paradigms cannot cope with certain problems, there is a paradigm shift that can lead
to the emergence of a new scientific discipline. This happens often through the creation
of novel scientific collaborations. In this context, Becher & Trowler (2001) explained
that, even if science proceeds towards more specific disciplines, and thus researchers in
different communities become less compatible, they are still inclined to collaborate for
mutual benefit. Herrera, Roberts & Gulbahce (2010), Sun et al. (201...
--
6334:...ies, we hypothesize the existence of an even earlier phase, which we
name embryonic phase, in which a topic has not yet been explicitly labelled and recognized
by a research community, but it is already taking shape, as evidenced by the fact that
researchers from a variety of fields are forming new collaborations and producing new
work, starting to define the challenges and the paradigms associated with the emerging
new area.
We also hypothesize that it could be possible to detect topics at this stage by analysing
the dynamics of already established topics. In this context, we use the term dynamics to refe...
--
7341:...ut. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.119
2/28

new possibilities and maybe shaping a new emerging area. In the same way, as pointed
out by Salatino (2015), we can hypothesize a wide array of relevant patterns of activity,
which could anticipate the creation of a new research area. These may include a new
collaboration between two or more research communities (Osborne, Scavo & Motta, 2014),
the creation of interdisciplinary workshops, a rise in the number of experts working on
a certain combination of topics, a significant change in the vocabulary associated with
relevant topics (Cano Basave, Osborne & Salatino, ...
--
8016:...o uncover key elements associated with the
research dynamics preceding the creation of novel topics, thus providing initial evidence to
support our hypotheses. In particular, our study provides evidence that the emergence of a
novel research topic can be anticipated by a significant increase in the pace of collaboration
between relevant research areas, which can be seen as the ‘parents’ of the new topic.
Our study was performed on a sample of three million publications in the 2000–2010
interval. It was conducted by comparing the sections of the co-occurrence graphs where new
topics are about to emerge with a control group of subgraphs associated with established
topics. These graphs were analysed by using two novel approaches that integrate both
statistics and semantics. We found that the pace of collaboration and the density measured
in the sections of the network that will give rise to a new topic are significantly higher than
those in the control group. These findings support our hypothesis about the existence of an
embryonic phase and also yield new empirical evidence consistent with the aforementioned
theories in P...
--
9351:...ore this becomes explicitly recognised and established.
The study presented in this paper is an extension of the work by Salatino & Motta
(2016). The new contributions of this paper are: (1) a larger sample including 75 debutant
topics and 100 established ones, (2) a new technique for measuring the density of the topic
graph, (3) a more exhaustive statistical analysis, including a comparison of the different
approaches, (4) a revised state of the art, and (5) a more comprehensive discussion of the
findings.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We first review the literature regarding the
ea...
--
15679:...els, with a set of terms that
have previously appeared in a good number of publications. Detecting research trends at
an embryonic stage remains an open challenge.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
The aim of this study was to measure the association between the emergence of a new topic
and the increase of the pace of collaboration and density previously observed in the co-
occurrence graphs of related topics. To this end, we represent topics and their relationships
in a certain time frame as a graph in which nodes are topics and edges represent their co-
occurrences in a sample of publications. This is a common representation for invest...
--
16747:...g new
topics until we reached data saturation (Fusch & Ness, 2015), i.e., the results of the analysis
did not vary significantly with the inclusion of new data points.
In the following sections, we will describe the dataset, the semantically enhanced topic
graph, and the methods used to measure the pace of collaboration and the density of the
subgraphs.
The raw data and the results of this study are available at https://osf.io/bd8ex/.
Semantic enhanced topic network
We use as dataset the metadata describing three million papers in the field of Computer
Science from a dump of the well-known Scopus dataset (https://www.elsevier.com...
--
24557:...n a year and Etopic
year−1 is the set of
edges linking the nodes in the set.
The graphs associated to the debutant topics included 1,357 unique topics, while the
ones associated to the control group included 1,060 topics.
Graph analysis
We assess the dynamics in the graphs with two main approaches: clique-based and triad-
based. The first transforms the graph in 3-cliques, associates to each of them a measure
reflecting the increase in collaboration between relevant topics and then averages the results
over all 3-cliques. The second measures the increase in the topic graph density using the
triad census technique (Davis & Leinhardt, 1967). In the following two sections we describe
both methods in details.
Clique-based method
We measure the collaboration pace of a graph by analysing the diachronic activity of
triangles of collaborating topics. To this end, we first extract all 3-cliques from the five
sub-graphs associated to each topic under analysis. A 3-clique, as shown in Fig. 3, is a
complete sub-graph of order three in which all nodes are connected to one another and is
employed for modelling small groups of entities close to each other (Luce & Perry, 1949).
To study the dyn...
--
[98 more matches not shown]
