warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.03850
Type: PDF
Pattern: cluster|densit|dynamism|predict|abstract (17 matches in 45182 chars)

--- Content ---

44:1
Structure in scientific networks: towards predictions of
research dynamism
Benjamin W. Stewart1, Andy Rivas2, Luat T. Vuong3,4,
1 Expository Writing Program, New York University, New York, NY, USA
2 Conductor, Inc. New York, NY, USA
3 Department of Physics, Queens College of the City University of New York, Flushing,
NY, USA
4 Department of Physics, The Graduate Center of the City University of New York,
New York, NY, USA
* Luat.Vuong@QC.cuny.edu (LTV), BWS5@nyu.edu (BWS), arivas@conductor.com
(AR)
Abstract
Certain areas of scientific research flourish while others lose advocates and attention.
We are interested in whether structural patterns within citation networks correspond to
the growth or decline of the research areas to which those networks belong. We focus on
three topic areas within optical p...
--
5494:...aining—can be understood as brokerage between concepts (or aspects of theories) that
have yet to be connected to each other. Our study looks at the structural features that
are the precipitates of such combination and asks whether citation networks exhibit
structural patterns that correspond to the dynamism of the research areas to which
those networks belong. Of the citation networks of particular articles, we ask about the
relations between two properties: the number of articles connected to the network via a
single link (i.e., nodes that, relative to a large percentage of the other nodes in the
net...
--
9530:...o either, (a) isolate the
significant networks of concepts that have emerged from scholarly conversations, or (b)
focus on the advantages of particular structural positions within the social network, we
look at citation network structure to see if patterns of referencing behavior correlate
with the dynamism of areas of scientific research.
We build and study citation networks of the leading papers in three research areas.
In order to characterize those networks’ citation ecologies, we focus on the relationships
between two properties whose mutual growth—on multi-year time horizons—appears to
be vital ...
--
19020:...parent-paper citation networks exhibit structural changes
based on the citation practices of its descendants.6(A) represents a parent-paper
network containing the basic network of 3 grandparents and 3 descendants; that
network’s structure changes significantly when (B) a new descendant introduces a
cluster of 11 exogenous nodes. A subsequent descendant may cite the network’s
exogenous nodes, as in (C), or, alternatively and by contrast, add exogenous nodes to
the parent citation network, as in (D).
To measure of the number of nonredundant ties in the parent networks, we calculate
those networks’ cita...
--
26373:... these
mirrored punctuations are most clearly visible in the growing (A and D) and re-emerging
(C and F) areas. This phenomenon may have implications for further research.
Reflections on the approach and future directions
In this study, we have begun to analyze citation ecologies in relation to the dynamism of
selected research areas; we have centered our analysis on simple measures that
succinctly identify patterns of variation that lead to divergent outcomes. Our initial
observations indicate that leading-paper citation networks carry signatures that
correlate with the dynamism of the research areas to which they belong: network

9
(A) 
(E) 
(D) 
(B) 
(C) 
(F) 
Fig 4. Punctuated drops of citation network (A)-(C) Normalized Entropy accompany
punctuated jumps in (D)-(F) Citation Reach, drawn as a function of year for growing
[plasmon] (green), waning [photorefractive] (brow...
--
27475:...relate with the growth or
waning of the field. These results are easily observed, though their significance is
limited by our focus on only three areas within optics. Nevertheless, our results offer a
place to begin to ask questions beyond those areas. Are correlations between network
structure and dynamism visible across other topics of research? If so, are the
correlations present in a manner analogous to our observations here, or do those
properties’ measures vary in different ways, perhaps depending on the type of research,
or relative to the scholarly cultures conducting that research?
Even withi...
--
29735:...ng subject in topic
identification in itself.

10
a gap between assessments that focus on individual scholars’ publication records [58–61],
and those concerned with the research programs of larger-scale entities—such as
institutions [60,62], innovation networks [63], or nations [64–66]. That is, by clustering
together measures of the structures of individual networks, projects that characterize
citation ecologies have the potential to clarify the links between the micro level of
individual papers, and their relations to the larger, macro-structures to which they
contribute.
Currently, there is a trend towards employing enormous data sets and sophisticated
machine learning methods that, with a similar objective, seek to draw predictions from
network structures. Our efforts aim to discern patterns of citation networks rather than
social networks, and to identify research trends; we believe we are among the first to
successfully correlate the structure of citation networks with the dynamics of research
topics by strategic select...
--
31186:...citation networks is vital to the continued growth of topic areas.
There are similarities between this ecological focus and some work in patent
analysts—studies that may be instructive for future research. For instance, Wang et
al., [67] have shown that strong brokerage positions in patent networks predict for
patent renewal. In a slightly different vein, Yoon et al., have used subject-action-object
(SAO) analysis to bring together multiple variables in the production of dynamic patent
maps that point to ”hotspots” and ”vacuums” in the patent landscape [68]. Yet though
this work is closely related to...
--
[5 more matches not shown]
