warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w22180/w22180.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: other fields|distant|foreign|interdisciplin|high impact|delayed (105 matches in 107887 chars)

--- Content ---

2836:...ferenced journals, taking into account the difficulty of making such combinations.  We apply 
this newly developed measure of novelty to all Web of Science research articles published in 
2001 across all scientific disciplines.  We find that highly novel papers, defined to be those that 
make more (distant) new combinations, deliver high gains to science:  they are more likely to be a 
top 1% highly cited paper in the long run, to inspire follow on highly cited research, and to be 
cited in a broader set of disciplines.  At the same time, novel research is also more risky, reflected 
by a higher variance in its citation performance.  In addition, we find that novel research is 
significantly more highly cited in “foreign” fields but not in its “home” field.  We also find strong 
evidence of delayed recognition of novel papers and that novel papers are less likely to be top 
cited when using a short time window.  Finally, novel papers typically are published in journals 
with a lower than expected Impact Factor.  These findings suggest that science policy, in 
particular funding decisions whic...
--
5078:..., 1962; Merton, 1973; Planck, 1950) or because of the 
longer time required to incorporate the findings of novel research into follow-on research 
(Garfield, 1980; Wyatt, 1975).  The “high risk/high gain” nature of novel research makes it 
particularly appropriate for public support (Arrow, 1962).  Delayed recognition may, however, 
lead novel research to be undervalued in research evaluations which use classic bibliometric 
indicators based on short term citations. 
This bias in classic bibliometric indicators against novel research, to the extent it exists, is of 
concern given the increased relian...
--
7252:...es of 773,311 research articles across all scientific disciplines published in 2001 and 
indexed in the Web of Science (WoS), as well as the profile of papers citing them. 
We find novel papers to have a larger variance in their citation distribution and be more likely to 
populate both the tail of high impact as well as the tail of low impact, reflecting their “high risk” 
profile.  At the same time, novel papers also display a “high gain” characteristic:  They have a 
much higher chance of being a top cited paper in the long run, a higher likelihood of stimulating 
follow-on top cited research, and a broader impact transcending disciplinary boundaries and 
reaching more scientific fields.  We further scrutinize the impact profile of novel research and 
uncover intriguing characteristics associated with novelty.  First, we distinguish between impact 
in “home” and “foreign” fields and find that novel papers are significantly more likely to be 
highly cited in foreign fields but not in their home field.  Second, an examination of time 
dynamics in the citation accumulation process reveals delayed recognition for novel research.  
Specifically, although novel papers are highly cited in the long run, they are less likely to be top 
cited in the short run.  We also find that novel papers are less likely to be published in high 
Impact Factor journals.  These findings suggest that over-reliance...
--
18016:...new combinations.  Papers without new 
combinations get 0 by definition. 
𝑁𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑦= ෍
൫1 −𝐶𝑂𝑆𝑖,𝑗൯
𝐽𝑖−𝐽𝑗 𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟 𝑖𝑠 𝑛𝑒𝑤
    
• We also construct two alternative measures for robustness tests (details in Appendix III): 
the maximum novelty score which focuses exclusively on the novelty score of the most 
distant new journal pair and the weighted share of new journal pairs in all pairs, which is 
essentially a means of normalizing our novelty measure for the number of all journal 
pairs. 
• In addition, to avoid trivial combinations, we focus only on the most important journal 
combinations, i.e., we exclud...
--
24090:...inations, (2) moderately novel, if a paper makes at least one new combination but has a 
novelty score lower than the top 1% of its subject category, and (3) highly novel, if a paper has a 
novelty score among the top 1% of its subject category. 
Highly novel papers not only make more but also more distant new combinations.  The median 
number of new combinations they make is 7, while the median for moderately novel papers is 1.  
In addition, the new combinations that highly novel papers make are more distant, as suggested 
by their lower cosine similarity scores compared with that of moderately novel papers (Table 1). 
In addition, fields differ in their propensity to make new combinations.  The Life Sciences score 
relatively higher, especially Neurosciences, Pharmacology and Biology & Biochemistry.  ...
--
28521:...egory and publication year, into 
three citation classes based on their citations in the 14-year time window: the top 10%, the 
lowest 10%, and the middle 80%.  There is clear evidence that highly novel papers, which have a 
higher dispersion in their citations, are more likely to be in the tail of high impact, specifically, 
the odds of being the top 10% cited versus being the middle 80% cited are 16.80% higher for 
highly novel than non-novel papers.  There is equally strong evidence that highly novel papers 
are more likely to be in the tail of least cited papers:  the odds of being in the lowest 10% ...
--
33075:...orrespondingly, we control for the 
number of direct citations in the same 9-year period. 

13 
 
We examine whether the impact of a novel paper is more likely to be outside its own field than 
within its own field.  To this end, we partition a paper’s forward citations into two types: “home” 
and “foreign” field citations, that is, citations received from subsequent publications that share at 
least one common WoS subject category (home field citations) and citations from publication 
that share no common WoS subject categories (foreign field citations).  Then we calculate, for 
each paper, the proportion of its citations that are foreign field citations.  An OLS model (Table 4 
column 4) shows that novel papers have a larger ratio of citations from foreign fields, suggesting 
that novel research has a greater transdisciplinary impact than does non-novel research6. 
The broader and more transdisciplinary impact of novel research raises the question of whether 
the major impact that novel papers generates is driven by their impact within and/or outside their 
own field.  To answer this question we examine separately whether novel papers are among the 
top 1% highly cited in their home field and in foreign fields (Table 4 columns 5-6 and Figure 
1E)7.  We find that the odds of being top cited in home fields are not significantly larger for 
highly novel papers than non-novel papers, and for moderately novel papers they are even 8.37% 
lower compared with that of non-novel papers.  The lower chance for novel papers to be highly 
cited in their home field is consistent with resistance from existing paradigms against novel 
approaches.  At the same time, novel papers, compared with non-novel ones, have higher odds of 
being highly cited in foreign fields.  Although this holds for moderately novel papers, it 
especially holds for highly novel papers, i.e., the odds of being highly cited in foreign fields are 
29.39% and 62.37% higher for moderately and highly novel papers respectively, compared with 
that of non-novel papers.  The finding that the overall high impact of novel research is due to its 
success in foreign fields rather than in its home field calls to mind the passage from Luke 4:24:  
“Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.” 
                                                        
6 The findings that novel papers has an ...
--
[85 more matches not shown]
