warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.dallasfed.org/-/media/documents/institute/wpapers/2014/0185.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: signal is negative|negative signal|negative growth|declin|interaction term|Table [0-9]+ shows|we find (13 matches in 116530 chars)

--- Content ---

1071:...h a firm updates its prior belief about demand 
in a foreign market based on several factors, including the number of neighbors currently 
selling there, the level and heterogeneity of their export sales, and the firm’s own prior 
knowledge about the market. A positive signal about demand inferred from neighbors’ 
export performance raises the firm’s probability of entry and initial sales in the market but, 
conditional on survival, lowers its post-entry growth. These learning effects are stronger 
when there are more neighbors to learn from or when the firm is less familiar with the 
market. We find supporting evidence for the main predictions of the model from 
transaction-level data for all Chinese exporters from 2000 to 2006. Our findings are robust 
to controlling for firms’ supply shocks, countries’ demand shocks, and city-country fixed 
effects. 
 
JEL codes: F1, F2 
 
*Ana Fernandes, Department of Economics, University of Exeter, Rennes Drive, Exeter EX4 4PU, UK.  
44-0-1392-723205. a.p.o.fernandes@exeter.ac.uk. Heiwai Tang, School of Advanced International Studies, 
Johns Hopkins University, 1717 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Suite 709, Washington, DC 20036. 202-663-
5679.  hwtang@jhu...
--
7723:...in the literature on information
and technology spillover in trade, but also on other (measurable) factors, including the number of
neighbors currently selling there, the level and heterogeneity of their export sales, and the ﬁrm’s
own prior knowledge about the market. More neighbors may not encourage export entries. The
relationship depends on the strength of the signal (average neighbors’export sales or growth). An
increased prevalence of neighboring export activities will increase the rate of exporters’entry into
new markets when the signal is positive, whereas it will deter entry when the signal is negative.
Our model proposes the use of an interaction between the signal and the prevalence of neighboring
export activities, rather than the prevalence measure only, as a more direct variable to empirically
identify information spillover in trade.
Our model yields several predictions. It predicts that a positive signal about foreign market
demand from neighbors induces more export entries and larger initial sales among the entrants
in the same market. This eﬀect is stronger when the signal is more precise, due to more ﬁrms
revealing it.
Given the positive relationship between the strength of the sig...
--
20364:...to the literature,
our work is distinct in several respects. First, we examine the eﬀects not only on entry but on
four diﬀerent measures of export performance: entry, survival, initial sales, and export growth
conditional on survival. Second, not only do we examine the relationship between the prevalence
of existing market-speciﬁc export activities and new exporters’performance, we also examine the
correlation between them, conditional on the strength of the signal. To the extent that learning
is the main channel, the prevalence of existing exporters should matter diﬀerently for positive and
negative signals. Third, our model shows that in the presence of ﬁrm heterogeneity and ﬁxed costs,
ﬁrm entry and survival are related, which requires controlling for ﬁrm or ﬁrm-year ﬁxed eﬀects
in regression analyses. Fourth, we use city boundary to deﬁne geographic units, which are much
ﬁner than what has been commonly used in existing research on information spillover. Finally, we
explore information spillover across destinations within ﬁrms, controlling for all ﬁrm-speciﬁc and
market-speciﬁc shocks.
By analyzing the impact of the geographical agglomeration of exporters on ﬁrms’export per-
formance, our pa...
--
68536:...nt of 0.449 on 100 × △ln (xcmt) in column 6 suggests that the (pooled)
sample mean export growth of neighbors exporting from city c to country m (20%) is associated
with a 0.1 percentage-point increase in the probability of entry into the market.49 The numbers
appear to be small, but as reported in Table 2, the median entry rate in a country (after averaging
across city-years) is about 0.3%.50 So a 20% higher growth rate of exports to a particular country
is associated with about a one-third increase in the export entry rate, evaluated at the median. In
addition, the coeﬃcient of 0.052 on the interaction term, 100 × ln(ncm,t−1) × △ln (xcmt), suggests
that an increase in neighbors’export growth equal to the sample mean (20%) is associated with
an increase in the entry probability by 0.02 percentage points when the log density of neighbors
revealing the signal increases by one standard-deviation (that is, 1.7, or about 5 ﬁrms).51 This
corresponds to an increase of about 10% in the entry rate evaluated at the median entry rate in
the sample.
In the online appendix, we conﬁrm the robustness of the results by measuring the prevalence of
neighbors by the (log) number of ﬁrms instead of the density (colu...
--
76701:... with the regressor included in the last column of Table 3. While the
estimated coeﬃcients on the quintile interactions are positive and statistically signiﬁcant, they are
not decreasing in quantile ranks, as is expected based on Proposition 2. Importantly, we continue
to ﬁnd a positive and signiﬁcant eﬀect of the density of neighbors on the entry learning eﬀects,
consistent with our ﬁndings in Table 3.
In column 3, we explore the diﬀerential learning eﬀects across destination markets, based on
their distance from China. From the speciﬁcation in column 5 of Table 3, we additionally include
an interaction term between the (log) distance of country m from China and the signal measure.
We ﬁnd a positive and marginally signiﬁcant (at the 10% level) coeﬃcient on the interaction
term, lending some support to Proposition 2, which predicts that learning is stronger for markets
which ﬁrms are less familiar with. In column 4, we explore the potential non-linear relationship
between distance from China and learning, by including interactions between quintile dummies of
the distance and the signal. The coeﬃcients on all interaction terms are positive and signiﬁcant,
with the smallest coeﬃcient found on the ﬁrst quintile interaction and the highest found on the
fourth one.
Though the coeﬃcient on the interaction term is not monotonically increasing in
quintile rank, the average of the coeﬃcients on the fourth and ﬁfth quintile interactions is larger
than the average of the ﬁrst three. The diﬀerence is also statistically signiﬁcant.
We then investigate whether a ﬁrm’s previously served markets can aﬀect a new exporter’s prior
and shape its entry patterns. We use the extended gravity measures explained above to capture
market similarity. As reported in Table 6, when we use common oﬃcial language to group countries
(column 1), we ﬁnd supporting evidence that new exporters have less to learn from neighbors
ab...
--
78683:...served markets. The coeﬃcient on the
56Note that for the extended gravity measures, vicmt = 1 if ﬁrm i has served a country in year t −1 that is close
(in terms of one of the two criteria) to new market m in year t, and vicmt = 0 otherwise.
57We use the city-market sample rather than the ﬁrm sample to assign observations to quantiles.
24

interaction between the signal and the indicator for whether the new market shares a common
language with any of the ﬁrms’ existing markets is negative and signiﬁcant. When we use the
“common border” criteria to deﬁne country similarity, the coeﬃcient on the interaction term is
positive but insigniﬁcant (column 2). Column 3 includes simultaneously interactions between the
signal and both the indicators for common language and common border. The interaction term
remains negative and signiﬁcant for language and insigniﬁcant for common boarder. In sum, results
from two of the three sets of regressions in Tables 4 and 6 support Proposition 2.
5.2
Entrants’Initial Sales
Next, we study the eﬀects of learning from neighbors on exporters’initial sales in a new market.
Proposition 3 states that new exporters’initial exports are increasing in the strength of the signal,
more so if it is revealed by more neighbors. To examine this proposition, we estimate eq. (12) but
with the entry dummy replaced by the (log) ﬁrm i’s initial exports to market m from city c in...
--
81667:...% initial exports in the same market.60
The ﬁndings in this section are consistent with Proposition 3 and also existing studies that
investigate why exporters tend to start small when exporting to a new market (Rauch and Watson,
2004; Albornoz et al., 2012). Our results suggest that neighboring market-speciﬁc export activities
reveal information about foreign demand, encouraging ﬁrms to enter a new market with a larger
order.
58Results remain robust when we measure the prevalence of neighbors by the log of their raw number (see columns
3 and 4 of Table A4). In particular, the coeﬃcient on the interaction term between the signal and the ln(number) of
neighbors is positive and statistically signiﬁcant.
590.165 × 0.20 × 100.
600.016 × 0.20 × 1.7 × 100
25

5.3
Survival
Proposition 4 predicts that conditional on entry, a new exporter’s survival rate is increasing in the
strength of the signal revealed by neighbors’export activities, but is independent of the number
of neighbors. The reason is that while the number of neighbors aﬀects the number of entrants by
changing the entry threshold, conditional on entry, any ex ante information was already taken into
account by the entrant at the time of entry an...
--
83057:..., xicm,t+1 > 0
0 if xicm,t−1 = 0, xicm,t > 0, xicm,t+1 = 0
,
(14)
That is, Survivalicmt equals 1 if the ﬁrm was not exporting to market m in year t −1, but
starts exporting in year t and continues in t + 1. If the ﬁrm exports in year t but not in t + 1,
Survivalicmt = 0. In the literature, Survivalicmt = 1 corresponds to successful export entrants,
while Survivalicmt = 0 are referred to as one-time or occasional exporters. We examine Proposition
3 by estimating eq. (12), but with the entry dummy replaced by Survivalicm,t as the dependent
variable. We use the same baseline proxy for signal and interaction terms as above. The results are
reported in Table 8. According to Proposition 4, there should be no relation between the number of
neighbors and the exit rate. However, the strength of the signal aﬀects entry and thus the sample
of new exporters. Thus, our model highlights the importance of controlling for ﬁrm ﬁxed eﬀects
to account for the potential selection bias. For comparison, we continue to use speciﬁcations with
diﬀerent combinations of ﬁxed eﬀects as above.
Columns 1 and 2 of Table 8 control for city-country and country-year ﬁxed eﬀects, while columns
3 and 4 control for city-year and city...
--
86468:...igniﬁcant
coeﬃcients on the three regressors of interest: the density of existing exporters serving a market
from the city, ln(ncm,t−1); the strength of the signal, △ln (xcmt); and the interaction between those
two variables.61
This suggests that export growth after entry in a market is decreasing in the
performance of existing exporters serving that market from the same city, and more so with a
higher density of neighbors. These results lend support to Proposition 5. In particular, in column
6 where we control for ﬁrm-year and city-country ﬁxed eﬀects, we obtain an estimated coeﬃcient
on the interaction term of -0.024. This suggests that in city-markets with an average growth of
neighbors’ exports (20%), a one standard-deviation increase in the density of neighbors lowers
post-entry export growth of a new exporter in the same market by about 1 percentage point.
5.5
Robustness Checks
We also perform several robustness checks for the analyses conducted so far. First, in addition to
city-country and ﬁrm-year ﬁxed eﬀects, we include country-year ﬁxed eﬀects in our regressions to
make sure that new exporters’dynamics are not driven by country demand shocks, in addition to
ﬁrm supply shocks and city-co...
--
88045:...rocessing export sector in terms of the number of exporting ﬁrms and export value. The results
for entry and initial sales, as reported in the ﬁrst two columns of Table A7 in the online appendix,
show that the coeﬃcients on both the stand-alone signal term and its interaction with the density
of neighbors remain positive and statistically signiﬁcant at the 1% level. The regression results for
post-entry growth (column 4) also remain largely robust, with negative and signiﬁcant coeﬃcients
obtained on both terms. In the survival speciﬁcation (column 3), we obtain positive coeﬃcients on
both the interaction term and the stand-alone term for the signal, although insigniﬁcant.
61In column (6), when we add the controls for spillover eﬀects from ﬁrms serving markets other than the one the
ﬁrm entered, the coeﬃcient on the stand-alone density term loses signiﬁcance.
27

Another robustness check we conduct is to investigate whether new exporters learn from neigh-
bors located only in the same city or farther away as well. As reported in Table A8 in the online
appendix, we continue to ﬁnd that the entry probability and initial sales in a market increase in the
average performance of neighboring exporters in...
