warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.dallasfed.org/-/media/documents/institute/wpapers/2014/0185.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: negative|deter|exit|fail|surviv|number of neighbo (125 matches in 116530 chars)

--- Content ---

579:...ets/documents/institute/wpapers/2014/0185.pdf  
 
Learning to Export from Neighbors* 
 
Ana Fernandes 
University of Exeter 
 
Heiwai Tang 
Johns Hopkins University and CESIfo 
 
June 2014 
 
Abstract  
This paper studies how learning from neighboring firms affects new exporters’ performance. 
We develop a statistical decision model in which a firm updates its prior belief about demand 
in a foreign market based on several factors, including the number of neighbors currently 
selling there, the level and heterogeneity of their export sales, and the firm’s own prior 
knowledge about the market. A positive signal about demand inferred from neighbors’ 
export performance raises the firm’s probability of entry and initial sales in the market but, 
conditional on survival, lowers its post-entry growth. These learning effects are stronger 
when there are more neighbors to learn from or when the firm is less familiar with the 
market. We find supporting evidence for the main predictions of the model from 
transaction-level data for all Chinese exporters from 2000 to 2006. Our findings are robust 
to controlling for firms’ supply shocks, countries’ demand shocks, and city-country fixed 
effects. 
 
JEL codes: F1, ...
--
2308:...
Peter Morrow, Emanuel Ornelas, Carlos Vegh, Olga Timoshenko, Alan Winters, and participants at various 
seminars and conferences for insightful comments and suggestions. The views in this paper are those of the 
authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas or the Federal 
Reserve System. 
                                                 

1
Introduction
Research shows that ﬁrms’turnover rates (entry and exit) in foreign markets are much higher than
those in the domestic market.1 Moreover, ﬁrms often quit exporting to a country after a short
spell of selling a small amount of goods there.2 These ﬁndings reﬂect a considerable amount of
uncertainty facing new exporters. To explain these ﬁndings, theoretical studies have hypothesized
that ﬁrms optimally start small in a foreign market, and only after most of the uncertainty is
unveiled do they commit su...
--
3243:...arger orders (e.g., Rauch and Watson,
2003). While self-learning and experimentation are important mechanisms behind these dynamics,
in reality, ﬁrms usually try hard to obtain information from their neighbors before undertaking
risky investments (Hausmann and Rodrik, 2003). This is particularly the case when self-discovery
in export markets entails high sunk costs.3 While development economists have for years studied
how learning from neighbors determines ﬁrms’technology adoption (e.g., Foster and Rosenzweig,
1995, 2010; Conley and Udry, 2010), it has been a relatively neglected channel to explain exporters’
dynamics and performance.
We develop a model of social learning to study how ﬁrms learn from their neighbors about
foreign market demand. The model delivers several micro-founded hypotheses about how learning
from neighbors shapes new exporters’entry decisions, survival, initial sales, and post-entry growth,
which we then examine using detailed transaction-level data for all Chinese exporters. In addition
to the rich information available in the data, the especially high degree of industrial agglomeration
in China provides a good setting for such an analysis.
Our model incorporates social learning pioneered by Jovanovic (1982) into a standard heterogeneous-
ﬁrm model of trade, starting with Melitz (2003). We think of a ﬁrm’s export proﬁts in a market
as depending on three factors —ﬁrm-speciﬁc productivity, ﬁrm-market-speciﬁc product appeal, and
market-speciﬁc demand.
A new exporter knows its productivity before entry, but is uncertain
about country-speciﬁc demand and its own market-speciﬁc product appeal.4 Based on information
1Bartelsman, Haltiwanger, and Scarpetta (2009) found that the average turnover (entry + exit) rate in the domestic
market is 5% for developed nations and 10% for transition economies. The turnover rate in foreign market is several
orders of magnitude bigger, as shown by Eaton, et al. (2008), Albornoz et al. (2011), and Blum et al. (2013). See
the literature review below for a more detailed discussion.
2For example, Eaton et al. (2008) and Albornoz et al. (2012) ﬁnd that in Colombia and Argentina respectively,
only 40% to half of new exporters continue to export after the ﬁrst year. Firms that survive the ﬁrst year of exporting
end up driving the bulk of a country’s long-run export growth.
3Research in international trade has emphasized how high sunk costs of exporting shape export patterns. Das et
al., 2007 and Morales et al., 2011, among others, have provided sizeable estimates of those costs. Notice that high
sunk costs could explain low export entry rate, but not the marjority of small ﬁrms among export starters. One
notable exception in...
--
6424:...or about how to adapt the product to the speciﬁc tastes or legal requirements of the destination market.
We abstract from learning about production, but by no means we think it is unimportant for export. Regarding
the supply-side uncertainty, existing producers would have learned about their own capability by producing for the
domestic market. It is conceptually diﬃcult to explain why ﬁrms would enter a foreign market with a small order
and then exit if they are initially uncertain about their production capability.
2

inferred from neighbors’export performance in a market, a ﬁrm can update its prior about the
market’s demand that is common across ﬁrms. Since observed neighbors’export performance could
be aﬀected by their unobserved product appeals, signals about foreign market demand are noisy.
Based on a standard learning model, when more neighboring ﬁrms reveal information, the observed
s...
--
7702:...of
neighbors currently selling there, the level and heterogeneity of their export sales, and the ﬁrm’s
own prior knowledge about the market. More neighbors may not encourage export entries. The
relationship depends on the strength of the signal (average neighbors’export sales or growth). An
increased prevalence of neighboring export activities will increase the rate of exporters’entry into
new markets when the signal is positive, whereas it will deter entry when the signal is negative.
Our model proposes the use of an interaction between the signal and the prevalence of neighboring
export activities, rather than the prevalence measure only, as a more direct variable to empirically
identify information spillover in trade.
Our model yields several predictions. It predicts that a positive signal about foreign market
demand from neighbors induces more export entries and larger initial sales among the entrants
in the same market. This eﬀect is stronger when the signal is more precise, due to more ﬁrms
revealing it.
Given the positive relationship between the strength of the signal, its precision,
and new exporters’initial sales, new exporters’average export growth after entry, conditional on
survival, is lower the stronger and more precise the signal is. In other words, a ﬁrm is less likely to
be surprised and increase exports signiﬁcantly ex post when the ex ante signal about the foreign
market is more precise. The model also shows a weaker response in export entry to a positive signal
when observed neighbors’performance is more dispersed (i.e., a lower signal-to-noise ratio), and a
stronger response when the ﬁrm is less informed about the new market ex ante and needs to rely
more on information from neighbors.
Finally, our model shows that conditional on the signal and ﬁrm productivity, a new exporter’s
survival rate in a market is independent of the prevalence of neighbors serving the same market.
However, since the prevalence of neighbors revealing a positive signal is correlated with the mass of
export entrants, it will also aﬀect the fraction of export survivors. Given sunk entry costs and ﬁrm
heterogeneity, a more positive or precise signal induces more low-productivity ﬁrms to enter. In the
presence of per-period ﬁxed export costs, the less productive export entrants are more likely to exit
ex post. The fraction of surviving export entrants will be decreasing in the strength of the signal,
more so if it is revealed by more neighbors. Thus, our model highlights that existing evidence on
the positive information spillover eﬀect on survival can be determined by more low-productivity
entrants on the one hand, and a more accurate neighbors’revealed signal on the other.5
5By using transaction-level data, we address the selection bias in the empirical analysis by focusing on the within-
ﬁrm variation in performance across markets by controlling for ﬁrm-year ﬁxed eﬀects.
3

Using transaction-level trade data for the universe of Chinese exporters over 2000-2006, we ﬁnd
supporting evidence for the mai...
--
11652:...tandard-deviation increase in
the (log) density of neighboring ﬁrms (5 more neighbors per squared mile) exporting to a country
is associated with a 10% higher entry rate in the same country, evaluated at the median entry
rate. The corresponding positive eﬀect of the interaction between the signal and the prevalence of
neighbors on new exporters’initial sales is about 0.5%.
Our regressions show that new exporters’post-entry growth, conditional on survival, is neg-
atively correlated with both the strength of the signal and its interaction with the prevalence of
neighbors, as predicted by our model. The survival rate of export entrants, however, does not
appear to be correlated with either the prevalence of neighbors’export activities and the strength
of their revealed signal, contrasting with part of our prediction and most existing ﬁndings in the
literature. All empirical ﬁndings in the paper remain robust to controlling for the number of ﬁrms
serving other markets and its interaction with the corresponding signal, including diﬀerent sets of
ﬁxed eﬀ...
--
12769:...ures of the signal and of the prevalence
of neighbors.
To further conﬁrm that it is learning rather than other channels through which positive exter-
nalities are identiﬁed from neighbors, we empirically examine the theoretical predictions regarding
the relations between export entry rates, the precision of the signal, and the ﬁrm’s prior knowledge
about the new markets. While our empirical results do not support the speciﬁc prediction about
the negative eﬀects of a noisier signal on export entry rates, they reveal stronger learning eﬀects for
ﬁrms exporting to new markets that are farther away from China, which Chinese ﬁrms are presum-
ably less familiar with; and weaker learning eﬀects for ﬁrms entering new markets that share similar
characteristics (e.g., oﬃcial language) with the ﬁrms’previously served markets. Our ﬁndings also
reveal stronger learning eﬀects in situations when neighbors are domestic rather than foreign, con-
sistent with the hypotheses that foreign ﬁrms are more attentive in restricting the leakage of trade
secrets, or that there is less information exchange between domestic and foreign exporters. We also
6In particular, city-country ﬁxed eﬀects capture all path-dependent factors that may simultaneously determine
new exporters’sales dynamics and neighbors’export performance, avoiding the common “reﬂection” problem often
encountered in the literature on information or technology spillover.
7The prevalence of neighbors is measured by the density, a normalization of the number of ﬁrms by the size of the
city, or by the number itself. Results remain robust to the use of either measure.
4

ﬁnd that ﬁrms learn from both neighbors in the same city, as well ...
--
15244:...hows
that new exporters often start selling small amount and many of them cease exporting after the
ﬁrst year.8 The related theoretical research incorporates learning and/ or search in trade models
to rationalize these ﬁndings (Rauch and Watson, 2003; Freund and Pierola, 2010; Iacovone and
Javorcik, 2010; Albornoz et al., 2012; Eaton et al., 2012; Nguyen, 2012; among others).9 Most of
these models focus on ﬁrms’own export experiences to look for determinants of export dynamics.10
We focus instead on learning from neighbors.11
Second, our paper applies the inﬂuential social learning models (e.g., Jovanovic, 1982; Banerjee,
1992; Bikhchandani, Hirshleifer and Ivo, 1992, 1998) to the study of international trade. Belief
updating based on observed behaviors and/ or outcomes of others is a common feature in these
models.
There is a growing empirical literature that uses micro data to test these theories.12
For instance, Foster and Rosenzweig (1995) examine the roles of learning by doing and learning
from others in determining farmers’ adoption of new seeds.
Conley and Udry (2010) examine
8Among others, Eaton et al. (2008) ﬁnd that over 60% of new exporters in Colombia do not survive into the
next year, but those that do account for a signiﬁcant share of the country’s aggregate export volume. Consistently,
Albornoz et al. (2011) ﬁnd that about half of new exporters in Argentina export only for one year. By focusing on
agricultural exports from Peru, Freund and Pierola (2010) ﬁnd evidence of very large entry and exit in the export
sector and in new destinations, with high exit rates after just one year (above 50% on average), especially among
small starters. Blum et al. (2013) ﬁnd that one-third of exporters enter into and exit from exporting multiple times
in a 19-year panel of Chilean ﬁrms.
9For example, Albornoz et al. (2012) build a model that predicts ﬁrms’“sequential exporting” strategy, which
arises when a ﬁrm realizes its export proﬁtability through exporting and then decides whether to serve other des-
tinations based on its past export performance. Nguyen (2012) develops a model that features uncertain foreign
demands that are correlated across markets. Firms...
--
19366:...show how learning aﬀects export performance and dynamics
in a fast growing developing country, where information about foreign sales opportunities is vastly
asymmetric between ﬁrms. Our detailed transaction-level data permit an empirical examination of
learning models, without relying on experiments or micro surveys that are often unavailable but
are required for a study of learning.
Third, our paper relates to the early empirical studies on the determinants of exporters’entry
and survival. Aitken et al. (1997), Clerides et al. (1998), Bernard and Jensen (2004), Chen and
Swenson (2008) and Koenig et al. (2010) are among the early studies on how the prevalence of
existing exporters or multinational ﬁrms induces new export linkages. More recent research has
used transactions-level data (Alvarez et al., 2008; Cadot et al., 2011).13 Adding to the literature,
our work is distinct in several respects. First, we examine the eﬀects not only on entry but on
four diﬀerent measures of export performance: entry, survival, initial sales, and export growth
conditional on survival. Second, not only do we examine the relationship between the prevalence
of existing market-speciﬁc export activities and new exporters’performance, we also examine the
correlation between them, conditional on the strength of the signal. To the extent that learning
is the main channel, the prevalence of existing exporters should matter diﬀerently for positive and
negative signals. Third, our model shows that in the presence of ﬁrm heterogeneity and ﬁxed costs,
ﬁrm entry and survival are related, which requires controlling for ﬁrm or ﬁrm-year ﬁxed eﬀects
in regression analyses. Fourth, we use city boundary to deﬁne geographic units, which are much
ﬁner than what has been commonly used in existing research on information spillover. Finally, we
explore information spillover across destinations within ﬁrms, controlling for all ﬁrm-speciﬁc and
market-speciﬁc shocks.
By analyzing the impact of the geographical agglomeration of ...
--
21547:...gman and Venables (1995), and Duranton and Puga
(2004).14 Finally, our paper contributes to the literature on the role of ﬁxed and sunk costs of
13Alvarez et al. (2008) ﬁnd ﬁrm-level evidence from Chile that the probability of exporting in a new market (product
or destination) increases with the prevalence of other exporters in the same market. Cadot et al. (2011) ﬁnd evidence
for four Sub-Saharan African countries that the probability of export survival increases with the presence of other
ﬁrms’exporting the same product to the same country.
14Greenaway and Kneller (2008) ﬁnd that regional and sectoral agglomeration has a positive eﬀect on new ﬁrm
entry into export markets. Spillover from neighboring exporters, as the current paper studies, can aﬀect a ﬁrm’s
6

exporting in shaping trade patterns and dynamics (see Bernard et al., 2003; Melitz, 2003; Bernard
et al., 2007; Das, Roberts, and Tyb...
--
27685:...
ence. To our understanding, keeping the stock of information in a dynamic setting is challenging and has not been
done in the literature. We will leave it for future research.
19In our empirical speciﬁcations below, we eﬀectively control for these time-varying components by including ﬁrm-
year, market-year, and city-year ﬁxed eﬀects.
20These assumptions are consistent with the ﬁndings of Eaton el al. (2008), who show that in Colombia, ﬁrms that
survive the ﬁrst year of exporting have an average survival rate of 90% in the second and subsequent years.
21In a dynamic setting, dm can be allowed to vary over time and to be positively correlated across time with a
permanent component. More formally, the autocorrelation of d∗
m,t should be described by the following equation:
d∗
mt −d∗
m,t−1 = γ
 d∗
m,t−1 −d∗
m,t−2

+ ξmt,
where γ > 0 and ξmt is the permanent shock. See Section 4 for an exposition of the high persistence of demand
shocks.
8

ﬁrm i expects to obtain an operating proﬁt from exports to m as follows:
E [πo (Dim, ρ)]
=
ρσ−1E [Dim]
=
ζρσ−1 h
exp

dm + vm
2
i
,
where ζ = exp (κ), a constant, and vm = vdm + vzm. Notice that the ﬁrm’s expected revenue
depends not only on the mean value of Dm, but also on its variance, vm. To the extent that a
market is perceived as more uncertain, the higher level of uncertainty should deter entry. But since
the log-normal distribution is not mean preserving, a larger dispersion in Dim actually encourages
more ﬁrms to experiment because of a higher upside for export sales. As will be shown below, all
theoretical results are independent from this counter-intuitive result.22
Each ﬁrm has to pay a sunk cost, Ke
m, to enter market m. Firms that expect an export revenue
lower than Ke
m will not enter. The ex ante zero-proﬁt condition (i....
--
31916:...emoryless”assumption.
9

i is an export pioneer in market m (i.e., there is no existing ﬁrm selling there), it holds a belief
that eρt−1 = eρ
 dm, vm

as in eq. (1). If it has neighbors that entered at t −1, it holds a belief
that eρt−1 = eρ

d
post
m,t−1, vm,t−1

, where the posterior mean for period t −1, d
post
m,t−1, and the posterior
variance, vm,t−1, will be discussed below. Based on eρt−1, the knowledge about the distribution of
ρ, the number of neighbors, nmt, and their average export revenue observed, Rm,t−1, the ﬁrm infers
the demand level of market m as d
nb
mt = (Rm,t−1/nm,t−1)
bρσ−1
t−1
.25
Based on d
nb
m,t−1 inferred from nm,t−1 neighbors’, the ﬁrm updates its prior, in the way proposed
by Degroot (2004).26 The posterior is normally distributed with the following mean:27
d
post
mt

nm,t−1, d
nb
m,t−1

= E
h
dmt|nm,t−1, d
nb
m,t−1
i
= δtd
nb
m,t−1 + (1 −δt) dm,
(2)
where δt is the weig...
--
32973:...vzm + nmtvdm
=

1 +
1
nm,t−1
vzm
vdm
−1
.
(3)
The conditional variance of dmt, given nm,t−1 and d
nb
m,t−1, can be expressed as
vmt (nm,t−1, vdm, vzm) =
vzmvdm
vzm + nm,t−1vdm
=
 1
vdm
+ nm,t−1
vzm
−1
.
(4)
Notice that d
nb
m,t−1 depends on the true state of demand (d∗
m) in market m:
d
nb
mt (d∗
m) = d∗
m +
1
nm,t−1
nm,t−1
X
j=1
zim.
(5)
Partial diﬀerentiation yields the following comparative statics regarding the relationship be-
tween the number of neighbors, the precision of the prior, and the precision of the signal:
∂δt
∂nm,t−1
> 0;
∂δt
∂(vzm/vdm) < 0.
(6)
In words, when updating the prior, a potential entrant will put a larger weight (δt) on its
neighbors’signals about demand in market m and a smaller weight on its own prior belief, if there
are more neighbors revealing the signal. On the other hand, when the signal from neighbors is less
precise (higher vzm) due to more heterogeneous product ...
--
34493:...e export sales in each market.
27See Chapter 9 of DeGroot (2004).
10

put a smaller weight on the signal. Similarly, the ﬁrm will put a larger weight on the signal if it is
less informed about market m ex ante, captured by a higher vdm.
On the other hand, the posterior variance of the signal, vmt, depends on nm,t−1, vdm, and vzm
as follows:
∂vmt
∂nm,t−1
< 0; ∂vmt
∂vdm
> 0; ∂vmt
∂vzm
> 0.
The precision of the posterior, v−1
mt, increases with the number of neighbors revealing the signal.
In the extreme case when the number of neighbors approaches inﬁnity, the ﬁrm observes the true
demand in market m, d∗
m, according to (5) as the variance of the signal approaches 0. The ﬁrm will
then ignore its own prior and rely solely on its neighbors’revealed signal. The last two inequalities
are intuitive.
3.2.1
Entry into New Export Markets
We ﬁrst analyze how learning from neighbors aﬀects exporters’entry decision. ...
--
[85 more matches not shown]
