warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://afse2017.sciencesconf.org/142849/HAZIR_BELLONE_GAGLIO.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: drop|churn|exit|neighbo|density|RCA|abandon (66 matches in 64852 chars)

--- Content ---

35:Local Product Space and Firm Level Churning in
Exported Products
Cilem Selin Hazir ∗, Flora Bellone†, Cyrielle Gaglio ‡
GREDEG Working Paper No. 2017–02
Abstract
This paper explores the determinants of changes in the range of ex-
ports at the ﬁrm level with a particular interest in the role played by
the locality via product relatedness. ...
--
1285:...he region.
Our results also suggest that once ﬁrms alter their range of exports,
among all new products they start exporting, they enjoy greater ex-
port revenues in those that are more related to the core capabilities of
the locality.
Keywords: Local Product Space, Product Relatedness, Firm Export
Churning, France
JEL code: L25, F14, C49
1
Introduction
Recent empirical evidence point out to intense product churning at the ﬁrm
level and its contributions to growth of aggregate output.
Iacovone and
Javorcik (2010) report that in Mexico, over the period 1994-2003, export
∗Corresponding author: Universit´e Cˆote d’Azur, GREDEG, France and OFCE Sci-
encesPo, France. Email: cilemselin@gmail.com
†Universit´e Cˆot...
--
2055:...‡Universit´e Cˆote d’Azur, GREDEG, France.
1

variety creation constitutes annually on the average 19% of all varieties ex-
ported while export variety destruction accounts for 11%. Bernard et al.
(2010) ﬁnd for US manufacturing ﬁrms over the period 1987-1997 that the
gross contributions of product churning within ﬁrms to aggregate manu-
facturing output is as large as that of ﬁrm entry and exit. Such changes
in the product scope of ﬁrms are also key to understand the dynamics of
comparative advantage at the country level. Hanson et al. (2015) studies
135 industries in 90 countries between 1962 and 2007 and show that 60% of
the products that account for the top 5% of a country’s absolute-a...
--
2768:...ries in a given year, have not been in the top 5% two decades ear-
lier. Hence, what determines the changes in the range of products that a
ﬁrm exports and whether these changes have a pattern or show some path
dependency are important issues to investigate.
Nevertheless the determinants of product churning within ﬁrms has been
overlooked for a long time as the theory of international trade has mainly
developed on the simplifying assumption of mono-product ﬁrms. Both the
traditional theory of comparative advantage and the new trade theory, which
introduces product diﬀerentiation (Krugman, 1979; Eth...
--
3488:...tiglitz, where ﬁrms are intrinsically mono-product. The
mono-product assumption underlays also seminal models in industry dynam-
ics (Hopenhayn, 1992; Melitz, 2003) except a recent extension by Bernard
et al. (2010). Bernard et al. (2010) provides a theoretical model, distinguish-
ing ﬁrm entry and exit from product market entry and exit. Their model
explains ﬁrms’ product market entry decisions by means of evolving ﬁrm
and ﬁrm-market speciﬁc factors, namely productivity and consumer tastes.
While this simple setting of the model enables explaining key characteristics
of observed phenomenon, it excludes two aspects: agglomeration e...
--
7177:...t the ﬁrm level and by trying to elucidate the
role played by the locality via product relatedness in those changes. We
ﬁrst oﬀer a theoretical framework, which is suitable to capture the essence
of the relationship between the characteristics of local product spaces and
the dynamics of ﬁrm product churning. This theoretical framework is built
as an an extension of the industrial dynamics model proposed by Bernard
et al. (2010) on multiple product ﬁrms and product switching. We extend
this model to a multi-regional setting and introduce the local dimension via
urbanization economies common to all ﬁ...
--
7811:...nd
and export externalities that ﬁrms enjoy depending on the degree that their
products are related to the products exported by the locality.
On the empirical side, we base our investigations on a rich data set on
French mono-regional manufacturing ﬁrms that export both in 2002 and
2007.
We use the density measure proposed by Hidalgo et al. (2007) to
quantify product relatedness and investigate two main questions. The ﬁrst
one refers to whether ﬁrms randomly add and drop new products to their
export portfolio or whether these choices are impacted by the structure of
the local product space. The second investigates given that a ﬁrms starts
3

exporting new products, whether each has an equal share in terms of revenue
generation or the structure of the local product ...
--
9259:...Greenaway and Kneller, 2008; Koenig, 2009;
Koenig et al., 2010). By focusing on product relatedness, this study elab-
orates how spillovers ocur among co-located exporters. Third, the results
provide preliminary evidence on the microdynamics of regional comparative
advantage. Although ﬁrm entry and exit are not addressed in this study,
the pattern of changes in the incumbents’ product range still sheds light on
how changes in regional comparative advantege occur.
Finally, the rest of the paper is organized in four sections. In the next
section, the theoretical framework will be explained and econo...
--
10632:...le propositions of our empirical analysis.
2.1
The BRS Framework
Bernard et al. (2010) extends existing theories in industrial dynamics by
providing a model that explains how a ﬁrm chooses in which product mar-
kets it will operate. In former models, this question has been the same as
ﬁrm entry and exit as these models assume a single-product ﬁrm. In the
model developed by Bernard et al. (2010), ﬁrms choose to produce an en-
dogenous range of products as a result of evolving ﬁrm and ﬁrm-product
level characteristics.
4

The model assumes that ﬁrm entry entails a sunk entry cost. Once this
cost is ...
--
22850:... economies, which depend on the product-space
of the locality, leads us to introduce two shifters to equation 2.
πk(ϕ, l, λ∗
k(ϕ, Ωl)) = Rk(ρPkϕλ∗
k(ϕ, Ωl)))σ−1
σ
−(fpk + fpl) = 0
(2)
From Equation 2, we can derive a number of propositions, which concern
both the spatial determinants of ﬁrm product churning strategies and the
relationship between those microeconomic determinants and the dynamics of
regional (local) competitiveness. Considering ﬁrst, ﬁrm churning strategies,
Equation 2 has direct implications on both the probability for a ﬁrm to
switch products and on the direction of the portfolio changes. More precisely,
it can be expected that all else equal, for a given idiosyncratic productivity,
8

a ﬁrm will be be able to produce a larger set of products in a more urbanized
area because of the ﬁxed production cost advantages it enjoyes there. Also,
this ﬁrm is more likely to add new products that are more related to the
core products of the locality because of the demand complementarities that
prevail across neighborhood ﬁrms. Finally, all else equal, this ﬁrm is more
likely to drop a product k if this product is less congruent with the local core
products. From these implications, we derive our ﬁrst testable proposition
about the direction of ﬁrm product churning:
Testable proposition 1:
For a given idiosyncratic productivity and a
given location, ﬁrm i is more likely to add (drop) product k to (from) its ex-
port portfolio if product k is more (less) congruent with locality l’s product
space.
A second set of implications of our extended BRS framework concerns
ﬁrm sale dynamics. Basically, as equilibrium proﬁts for related products
are higher in our framework, those products...
--
26801:...tedness variable. Existing empirical studies provide statistical
evidence on a positive relationship between relatedness and new product
introduction (Lo Turco and Maggioni, 2014), and export performance (Pon-
cet and Starosta de Waldemar, 2015). Hence, β2 is also expected to take
a positive value. RCAlk is a dummy variable to control for products that
are already exported by the region with comparative advantage and β3 is
the related coeﬃcient. β3 is also expected to be positive as consumer tastes
that a ﬁrm observes for a product that is already being exported by the lo-
cality with comparative advantage would be higher. Whereas, δl stands for
locality ﬁxed eﬀects and captures urbanization economies that are common
to all ﬁrms in locality l regardless of what they produce. Finally, ϵik is the
error term.
y1a
ik = β0+αm+β1∗Productivityi+β2∗Relatednessl
k +β3∗RCAlk +δl +ϵik
(3)
Equation 4 refers to the latter part of the ﬁrst proposition, which states
that everything else being equal ﬁrms will be more likely to drop products
that are less congruent with the product space in their locality. Equation
4 diﬀers from Equation 3 only in terms of the deﬁnition of the dependent
variable. y1b
ik is also a binary variable, but it takes a value of 1 if ﬁrm i drops
product k at time t, where k belongs to its initial product mix m in t −5.
y1b
ik = θ0+αm+θ1∗Productivityi+θ2∗Relatednessl
k+θ3∗RCAlk+δl+ϵik (4)
We study the second proposition by means of Equation 5 below. The
second proposition states that, once a ﬁrm diversiﬁes it grows more in the
product-market which is more congruent with the product space in its lo-
cality. Hence, in Equation 5 the dependent variable (y2a
ik ) is deﬁned as the
ratio of export revenues that ﬁrm i obtains from a new product k to its
total export revenues from all new products. ψ0 is the constant variable.
αm, Relatednessl
k, and RCAlk are deﬁned same as above. ψ1, which is the
coeﬃcient associated with Relatednessl
k is expected to take a positive value
since ﬁrms are more likely to enjoy high consumer tastes for products that
are related with the core products in the locality due to demand interde-
pendencies. This would in turn cause equilibrium proﬁts to be higher for
such products, leading the ﬁrm to grow more in that product line as com-
pared to other products that it introduced during the same period. In the
same line of reasoning ψ2, which is the coeﬃcient associated with RCAlk,
is also expected to be positive. OTHik is a variable that is introduced to
10

control for other new products of the ﬁrm for two main reasons. First, there
is a mechanical relationship between the number of new products and the
value of y2a
ik on the average: the higher the former, the lower wil...
--
30099:..., might have been introduced at any point in the time-window
spanning t −5 to t. The earlier the ﬁrm enters in a product-market, the
more time it will have to develop distribution channels and penetrate in the
market. Hence, ψ4 is expected to have a positive sign.
y2
ik = ψ0+αm+ψ1∗Relatednessl
k+ψ2∗RCAlk+ψ3∗OTHik+ψ4∗Pastik+ϵik
(5)
3
Data Sources, Sample Selection and Variable
Deﬁnitions
For the empirical analysis, we bring together information from three diﬀer-
ent sources and build an original data set comprising French manufacturing
exporters that can be traced both in 2002 and 2007 and the pro...
--
31897:...mmerce International.
7CEPII - Centre d’Etudes Prospectives et d’Informations Internationales. Accession
date: 01/09/2015
11

3.1
Data Sources and Sample
To build the sample, ﬁrst we use French Customs data to determine the set
of exporters that we can trace both in 2002 and 2007 to study ﬁrm level
churning in exported products. In 2002, more than 119 thousand French
ﬁrms export and make a revenue of 3200 billion Euros. In 2007, the number
of exporters decrease to approximately 108 thousand and export revenues
worth 3900 billion Euros. Those ﬁrms that export both in 2002 and 2007
are almost 60 thou...
--
34830:... analysis we focus on mono-regional manufacturing
ﬁrms.
Over the course of ﬁve years, we observe from the table that ag-
gregate export revenues generated by these ﬁrms increase by 27%.
This
aggregate growth, however, is created via diﬀerent processes taking place
within ﬁrms: revenue losses due to dropping some products from the ex-
port basket, increase or decrease in export revenues obtained from goods
preserved in the export basket, generation of additional export revenues by
adding new goods to the export basket.
Table 2: Brakedown of Mono-Regional Manufacturing Firms by Type of
Change in the Export Basket from 2002 to 2007
Count
Share (%)
Only Adding
1,684
12.37
Both Adding and Dropping
7,936
58.27
No Change
1,891
13.89
Only Dropping
2,108
15.48
TOTAL*
13,619
100.00
According to Table
2, from 2002 to 2007 only 14% of mono-regional
manufacturing ﬁrms 8 maintain the range of products that they export as it
is. More than half of the ﬁrms (58%) modify their export basket by adding...
--
[36 more matches not shown]
