warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w8952/w8952.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: fail|imitat|copycat|pioneer|social value (40 matches in 96243 chars)

--- Content ---

957:...  Short sections of text, not to exceed
two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including © notice, is
given to the source.

Economic Development as Self-Discovery
Ricardo Hausmann and Dani Rodrik
NBER Working Paper No. 8952
May 2002
JEL No. O0, L1
ABSTRACT
In the presence of uncertainty about what a country can be good at producing, there can be great
social value to discovering costs of domestic activities because such discoveries can be easily imitated.
We develop a general-equilibrium framework for a small open economy to clarify the analytical and
normative issues.  We highlight two failures of the laissez-faire outcome: there is too little investment and
entrepreneurship ex ante, and too much production diversification ex post.  Optimal policy consists of
counteracting these distortions: to encourage investments in the modern sector ex ante, but to rationalize
production ex post.  We provide some informal evidence on the building blocks of our model.
Ricardo Hausmann
Dani Rodrik...
--
2561:...is view is 
that economic growth requires two things: foreign technology and good institutions.  This 
perspective is well grounded in the neoclassical model of economic growth, which predicts that 
poor countries will experience rapid convergence with advanced economies once they have 
access to state-of-the-art technologies and their governments respect property rights.  From this 
perspective, failure to grow can be attributed two one or both of two pathologies.  One is the 
“closed-economy” pathology, in which governments retard technological progress by reducing 
access to foreign investment and imported capital equipment and intermediate goods.  The other 
is the “corruption” pathology, in which political leaders fail to respect property rights and screw 
things up deliberately in order to enrich themselves and their cronies.  The natural remedies for 
these pathologies are economic openness and improved governance.  With these remedies in 
place, economic growth should follow naturally.  In the words of a recent paper on growth:  
“Once a developing country government establishes the rules to a fair game and ...
--
7033:...in the early 1990s, the Indian economy remained 
among the world’s most protected.  Of course heterodoxy did not produce payoffs everywhere.  
Most countries with protected economies and poor protection of property rights languished or 
retrogressed.  But the fact that the world’s most successful economies during the last four 
decades prospered doing things that are more commonly associated with failure is something that 
cannot be easily dismissed.      
We present here a different perspective on economic development, one that has more 
room for the Latin American and Asian “anomalies” noted above.  Our focus is on a particular 
type of learning that we believe has not received enough attention in the literature on economic 
development: learning what one is good at producing.2  We emphasize...
--
8221:...cts” or 
“natural-resource based products.”  Yet making the right investment decisions is key to future 
                                                 
2 For a paper that is focused on learning about the institutions that are appropriate to the local setting, see Mukand 
and Rodrik (2002). 
 

 
4
growth, as it determines the pattern of specialization.3  In these circumstances, there is great 
social value to discovering that cut flowers, soccer balls, or computer software can be produced 
at low cost, because this knowledge can orient the investments of other entrepreneurs.  But the 
initial entrepreneur who makes the “discovery” can capture only a small part of the social value 
that this knowledge generates.  As the cases we shall discuss in the empirical section of the paper 
reveal, other entrepreneurs can quickly emulate such discoveries.  Consequently, 
entrepreneurship of this type—learning what can be produced—will typically be undersupplied, 
and economic transformation delayed.  
This perspective differs from the standard view in an important way.  In the neocl...
--
12349:...uite different.  Typically, the intellectual property regime protects discoverers of new goods 
through the issuance of temporary monopolies, i.e., patents.  But the investor in the developing 
country who figures out that an existing good can be produced profitably at home does not 
normally get such protection, no matter how high the social return.6  Indeed, ease of entry by 
competitors (i.e., imitators) is normally judged to be an important indicator of how well markets 
function—the lower the barriers to entry, the better.  Free entry makes the non-appropriability 
problem worse, and undercuts the incentive to invest in discovering what a country is good at 
producing.  Laissez-faire cannot be the optimal solution under these circumstances, just as it is 
not in the case of R&D in new produ...
--
14660:...the third period, costs of all active firms become common knowledge and there is free 
entry, eliminating (through adjustments in wages) all excess profits.  We characterize in this 
setting both the laissez-faire equilibrium and the social optimum (in which the social planner can 
allocate resources at will, but has no more information than is available to the private sector).  
We highlight two failures of the laissez-faire outcome: there is too little investment and 
entrepreneurship in the first period (unless the second period is “very long”), and too much 
production diversification in the second.  Optimal policy consists of counteracting these 
distortions: to encourage investments in the modern sector ex ante, but to rationalize production 
ex post.   
 
Let us now return to the anomal...
--
22078:...                                  
8 Note that these are goods that are already being produced in other, more advanced countries.  So saying that there 
are well-known, fixed prices is not at odds with the assumption that none of them are being produced at home 
currently. 
  

 
10
for the θi to become common knowledge.  Alternatively, θi can be immediately known, but it 
could take time for an “imitator” to set up a firm.  We denote the length of period 2 as T. 
 
Finally, in period 3 (which lasts until infinity), there is free entry into the modern sector, 
and excess profits are eliminated.  The latter happens in our case via upward adjustments in the 
wage rate w.   
 
The model is closed by describing production in the traditional sector.  We assume that 
the traditional sector operates un...
--
29743:...ve an interior solution.  It is 
easy to verify, under these conditions, that the social planner’s choice of m, as defined implicitly 
by (8), is increasing in p and decreasing in b.          

 
14
 
Decentralized equilibrium.  We now characterize the market equilibrium under the 
conditions discussed previously, namely that the entrepreneurship decision is decentralized and 
there is no entry (“imitation”) during period 2.  That means that any entrepreneur who decides to 
produce in period 2 earns a monopoly profit during the length T of the second period.  Since the 
expected productivity is θ = ½, expected profits equal π =
2
2
2bw
p
bw
p
−
=
−θ
, where w2 is the 
(expected) equilibrium wage that prevails in period 2.  The present discounted value of these 
profits, since they accrue only fo...
--
31854:... period 
can then be written as 
(11) 
 
 
1
2
2
]
1[
−






−
−
=
α
α
mb
p
bw
l
w
. 
Equations (9), (10), and (11) determine the three endogenous variables in the system, m, w1, and 
w2.   
Outcomes in period 3 can be determined separately, but are not needed for our purposes.  
We just note that with free entry in the third period, all but the highest productivity firm close 
down, and imitation drives profits in that activity down to zero.  The mechanism that achieves 
rationalization of production is this:  lower productivity activities are driven out as wages get bid 
up by the entry of more firms into the highest-productivity activity.  Since entrepreneurs make 
zero profits in period 3, the investment level is determined only by outcomes in periods 1 and 2.       
 
We now discuss the salient features of the decentralized equilibrium.  First, note from (9) 
that m=0 for T sufficiently close to zero.  The interpretation is straightforward: entrepreneurs 
earn monopoly profits only during the duration of the second period.  If the length of this period 
shrinks to zero, there is no incentive to invest in discovering costs.  If imitation is immediate, the 
equilibrium level of investment and entrepreneurship is zero.  Second, over the range of T for 
which m>0, m, w1, and w2 are all increasing in T.  That is, investment increases as the monopoly 
period is extended.  Third, as long as monopoly prevails, modern-sector production is diversified 
and does not specialize in the good with the highest (known) productivity.  Once imitation kicks 
in with free entry, production in the modern sector is rationalized and only highest-productivity 
activity survives.  

 
16
Compared to the social optimum discussed previously, therefore, the decentralized 
equilibrium suffers from two distinct inefficiencies.  First, the level of investment and 
entrepreneurship in the market equilibrium (call it mc) does not coincide with that requi...
--
[25 more matches not shown]
