warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.06843
Type: PDF
Pattern: AUC|area under|accuracy|precision|positive|negative|imbalanc|five years|5 years|predict (69 matches in 63355 chars)

--- Content ---

0:Predicting Research Trends with Semantic and Neural Networks
with an application in Quantum Physics
Mario Krenn1, 2, 3, 4, ∗and Anton Zeilinger1, 2, †
1Vienna Center for Quantum Science & Technology (VCQ),
Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna, Austria.
2Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (IQOQI),
Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria.
3Department of Chemistry & Computer Scie...
--
1078:...searchers have to specialize in narrow sub-
disciplines, which makes it challenging to uncover scientiﬁc connections beyond the own ﬁeld of
research. Thus access to structured knowledge from a large corpus of publications could help pushing
the frontiers of science. Here we demonstrate a method to build a semantic network from published
scientiﬁc literature, which we call SEMNET. We use SEMNET to predict future trends in research and
to inspire new, personalized and surprising seeds of ideas in science. We apply it in the discipline of
quantum physics, which has seen an unprecedented growth of activity in recent years. In SEMNET,
scientiﬁc knowledge is represented as an evolving network using the content of 750,000 scientiﬁc
papers published since 1919. The nodes of the network correspond to physical concepts, and links
between two nodes are drawn when two physical concepts are concurrently studied in research
articles. We identify inﬂuential and prize-winning research topics from the past inside SEMNET
thus conﬁrm that it stores useful semantic knowledge. We train a deep neural network using states
of SEMNET of the past, to predict future developments in quantum physics research, and conﬁrm
high quality predictions using historic data. With the neural network and theoretical network tools
we are able to suggest new, personalized, out-of-the-box ideas, by identifying pairs of concepts
which have unique and extremal semantic network properties. Finally, we consider possible future
developments and implications of our ﬁndings.
INTRODUCTION
A computer algorithm with access to a large cor-
pus of published s...
--
8008:...arch [13].
Here, we show how to build and use a semantic
network for quantum physics, which we call SEMNET.
It is built from 750.000 scientiﬁc papers in physics
published since 1919.
In the network we identify a
number of historic award-winning concepts, indicating
that SEMNET carries useful semantic knowledge. The
evolution of such a large network allows us to use an
artiﬁcial neural network for predicting research con-
cepts that scientists will investigate in the next ﬁve
years. Finally, we demonstrate the power of SEMNET
to suggest personalized, novel and unique directions
for future research 1.
Our work diﬀers in several aspects from previous
semantic networks created from scientiﬁc literature.
First, we use machine learning to draw conclusions
from earlier states to SEMNET’s future state, which
enables us to make predictions about the future re-
search trends of the discipline. Second, we use net-
work theoretical tools and machine learning to iden-
tify pairs of concepts with exceptional network prop-
erties. Those concept combinations can be restricted
to the research interest of a speciﬁc scientist.
This
ability allows us to not only predict but also suggest
uninvestigated concept pairs which human scientiﬁsts
might not have identiﬁed because they are out of the
own sub-ﬁeld, but which have properties that indicate
an exceptional relation.
They could be a seed of a
new, out-of-the-box idea. Third, we apply SEMNET
to quantum physics, which has seen an enormouse
growth during the last decade due to the potential
transformative technolo...
--
14145:...mental ideas (such
as quantum decoherence or quantum energy teleporta-
tion) are studied in the context of foundational exper-
iments (such as delayed choice experiment or Mermin
inequality). While this method clearly cannot repre-
sent all quantum physics knowledge, it represents ele-
ments of its semantic structure, which we demonstrate
in what follows.

4
Figure 4. Artiﬁcial Neural Network for predicting the future of quantum physics research, using the evolution of the
semantic network SEMNET. For each unconnected pair of concepts at a speciﬁc year, we derive a vector of 17 network
properties (such as distance or cosine similarity).
In the training phase, we input these network properties into an
artiﬁcial neural network, and ask the question whether they will be connected 5 years later. SEMNET of 2017 is used
for supervision. After training, we can apply the neural network to SEMNET of 2017, and ask what will have happend
until the year 2022.
The resulting network SEMNET has 6368 vertices
with more than 1.7 million edges (drawn from more
than 15 million concept pairs pulled from 750.000
physics articles), using physics articles from 1919 to
december 2017.
RESULTS
Past qua...
--
17471:... learning to quantum physics
has become a prominent and diverse topic of research,
that falls under the umbrella of quantum machine
learning (recently summarized in two prominent re-
views [24, 25], and also observable by the foundation
of a novel high-quality journal for this topic, Springer
Quantum Machine Intelligence). These ﬁndings con-
ﬁrm that SEMNET contains useful semantic informa-
tion.
Predictive ability of the SEMNET
Having used SEMNET to study past quantum
trends, we investigate its ability to provide projec-
tions of knowledge developments in the future. This
essential question in network science is called link-
prediction problem, and asks which new link will be
formed between unconnected vertices of the network
in the future given the current state of the network (for
a detailed investigation of the link-prediction problem
in network theory, see [26]). We apply this problem in
the context of semantic networks which are generated
from published scientiﬁc literature. In the present case
looking at the ﬁeld of quantum physics, we ask which

5
two concepts that have not yet been studied together
might be investigated together in a scientiﬁc article
over the next ﬁve years. To answer this question, we
use an ...
--
18777:...idden layers). The structure of
the neural network and its training is shown in Figure
4. Its task is to rank all unconnected pairs of concepts
(roughly 5% of all edges have been drawn by the end
of 2017), starting with the pair that is most likely to
be connected ﬁve years, up to the pair that most likely
stays unconnected. Ultimately we want to apply the
neural network to the current SEMNET and predict
the future trends. To validate its quality, we ﬁrst in-
put to the neural network past states of SEMNET (for
example, containing data only up to 2002), and train
it to predict new links by 2007. After the training,
we apply this network on 2007 data and validate its
quality for data of the year 2012 (which it has never
seen before).
The semantic network is very large (consisting of
6368×6368 entries for each year, which are the num-
ber of possible connections between the 6368 quan-
tum physics concepts, compared to 28×28 pixels
for the famous MNIST dataset of handwrit...
--
21071:... in a network for protein interactions [29].
Finally, the last three properties correspond to three
diﬀerent measures of distance between the two con-
cepts. More details can be seen in the SI.
We explain these properties on a concrete pair of
concepts, interaction-free measurement and Leggett-
Garg inequality.
(We chose the example randomly,
from unconnected concepts that had been mentioned
True positive rate 
0 
1 
0,5 
0,5 
False positive rate 
1 
AUC2017=0.85 
Figure 5. Quantifying the prediction quality of the neu-
ral network regarding whether unconnected pairs will be
connected within 5 years, using a receiver operating char-
acteristic (ROC) curve. The y-axis shows the true-positive
(TP) rate (rate of pairs that have been correctly identiﬁed
to be connected within 5 years).
The x-axis shows the
false positive (FP) rate of predictions – concept pairs that
have falsely been predicted to be connected. We restrict
ourselves to concept pairs which share less than 20% of
their neighbors, to prevent predictions of terms with sim-
ilar semantical meaning. A perfect neural network would
have TP = 1 while FP = 0. A network that classiﬁes 50%
of true instances correctly, and misclassiﬁes 10% false in-
stance as true would have TP = 0.5 and FP = 0.1.
A
random classiﬁer is incorrect half the time and thus lies
along the diagonal. The area under the curve (AUC) for a
perfect neural network is 1, while for ...
--
[44 more matches not shown]
