warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.06843
Type: PDF
Pattern: AUC2017|Figure 5\. Quantifying|within (five|5|the next)|trained on|training|test (16 matches in 63355 chars)

--- Content ---

9660:...ntum physics, which has seen an enormouse
growth during the last decade due to the potential
transformative technologies. The growth can be seen
in the establishment of several high-quality journals
for quantum research (such as Quantum, npj Quan-
tum Information, IOP’s Quantum Science & Technol-
ogy) and multi-billion dollar fundings from govern-
ments and strong involvement of private companies
and startups worldwide.
The growth rate leads to
enormous increase in scientiﬁc results and publica-
tions, which are diﬃcult to follow for individual re-
searchers – thus quantum physics is an ideal test-bed
for SEMNET.
SEMANTIC NETWORK OF QUANTUM
PHYSICS
A semantic network, or knowledge network, repre-
sents relations between concepts in the form of a net-
work. Now we describe in more detail how the network
is built, especially how the concept list is generated
and how links are formed. A schematic illustration
can be seen in Figure 1, more details in Figure 2.
1 Code and details:
https://github.com/MarioKrenn6240/
SEMNET

3
a) Emerging Concepts 
b) Emerging Connections 
Number of Papers 
Number of Papers 
Figure 3. The evolution of quantum physics research observed using SEMNET, reﬂected i...
--
14397:... energy teleporta-
tion) are studied in the context of foundational exper-
iments (such as delayed choice experiment or Mermin
inequality). While this method clearly cannot repre-
sent all quantum physics knowledge, it represents ele-
ments of its semantic structure, which we demonstrate
in what follows.

4
Figure 4. Artiﬁcial Neural Network for predicting the future of quantum physics research, using the evolution of the
semantic network SEMNET. For each unconnected pair of concepts at a speciﬁc year, we derive a vector of 17 network
properties (such as distance or cosine similarity).
In the training phase, we input these network properties into an
artiﬁcial neural network, and ask the question whether they will be connected 5 years later. SEMNET of 2017 is used
for supervision. After training, we can apply the neural network to SEMNET of 2017, and ask what will have happend
until the year 2022.
The resulting network SEMNET has 6368 vertices
with more than 1.7 million edges (drawn from more
than 15 million concept pairs pulled from 750.000
physics articles), using physics articles from 1919 to
december 2017.
RESULTS
Past quantum physics trends
First, we use the evolution of the semantic network
to identify impactful emerging ﬁelds of research in the
past.
We deﬁne emerging ﬁelds as either concepts
or concept pairs which have grown signiﬁcantly after
they have been introduced or connected for the ﬁrst
time, over periods of ﬁve years.
Figure 3a shows the quantum physics topics that
have grown the fastest (in terms of numbers of papers
in which they have been mentioned) after their emer-
gence, from the years 1987 to 2017. Figure 3b shows,
for each year, which two-concept combinations have
grown the fastest in the ﬁrst ﬁve years after they have
been ﬁrst connected. In Figure 3, many of the emerg-
ing ﬁelds clearly correspond to important discover-
ies, advances in understanding and shifts of thought
within quantum science research. One of the fastest
growing concepts is Qubit, which emerged in 1995
(ﬁrst in april in a Phys.Rev.A paper by Schumacher
[15], then in arXiv preprints by Chuang&Yamamoto
[16] and by Knill [17, 18]). Qubits are the basic units
of quantum information – generalizing classical bits to
coherent quantum superpositions, and connect quan-
tum mechanics and information science. The emer-
gence of the qubit can be interpreted as the start of the
discipline of quantum information science. Enormous
growth is seen for topics connected to graphene, start-
ing in 2005, the discoverers of which were awarded the
2010 Nobel Prize ...
--
18436:...ent state of the network (for
a detailed investigation of the link-prediction problem
in network theory, see [26]). We apply this problem in
the context of semantic networks which are generated
from published scientiﬁc literature. In the present case
looking at the ﬁeld of quantum physics, we ask which

5
two concepts that have not yet been studied together
might be investigated together in a scientiﬁc article
over the next ﬁve years. To answer this question, we
use an artiﬁcial neural network, with four fully con-
nected layers (two hidden layers). The structure of
the neural network and its training is shown in Figure
4. Its task is to rank all unconnected pairs of concepts
(roughly 5% of all edges have been drawn by the end
of 2017), starting with the pair that is most likely to
be connected ﬁve years, up to the pair that most likely
stays unconnected. Ultimately we want to apply the
neural network to the current SEMNET and predict
the future trends. To validate its quality, we ﬁrst in-
put to the neural network past states of SEMNET (for
example, containing data only up to 2002), and train
it to predict new links by 2007. After the training,
we apply this network on 2007 data and validate its
quality for data of the year 2012 (which it has never
seen before).
The semantic network is very large (consisting of
6368×6368 entries for each year, which are the num-
ber of possible connections between the 6368 quan-
tum physics concepts, compared to 28×28 pixels
for the famous MNIST dataset of handwritten im-
ages, and 256×256 pixels for ImageNet [27]), and in-
volves combinatorial, graph-based information which
are more structured than images (see for example
[28]). For that reason, it is an unsuitable direct in-
put to the neural net...
--
21126:...s as one of the proper-
ties is strengthened by a very recent observation that
the paths of length 3 (L3) are crucial for link predic-
tion tasks in a network for protein interactions [29].
Finally, the last three properties correspond to three
diﬀerent measures of distance between the two con-
cepts. More details can be seen in the SI.
We explain these properties on a concrete pair of
concepts, interaction-free measurement and Leggett-
Garg inequality.
(We chose the example randomly,
from unconnected concepts that had been mentioned
True positive rate 
0 
1 
0,5 
0,5 
False positive rate 
1 
AUC2017=0.85 
Figure 5. Quantifying the prediction quality of the neu-
ral network regarding whether unconnected pairs will be
connected within 5 years, using a receiver operating char-
acteristic (ROC) curve. The y-axis shows the true-positive
(TP) rate (rate of pairs that have been correctly identiﬁed
to be connected within 5 years).
The x-axis shows the
false positive (FP) rate of predictions – concept pairs that
have falsely been predicted to be connected. We restrict
ourselves to concept pairs which share less than 20% of
their neighbors, to prevent predictions of terms with sim-
ilar semantical meaning. A perfect neural n...
--
[6 more matches not shown]
