warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.10812
Type: PDF
Pattern: exit|entry and exit|opposite (21 matches in 65512 chars)

--- Content ---

6473:...n and Herrero-Solana (26) classified countries into 
three groups based on their research specialization and showed that high GDP countries 
specialize in biomedicine, formerly communist countries specialize in basic science and 
engineering, and less developed countries specialize in agriculture. Cimini et al. (27) arrived at a 
different conclusion, showing that—rather than specializing—technologically-leading countries 
have been active in a diversity of scientific domains.  
 
Economic complexity framework provides a useful lens to evaluate economic and scientific 
transformations from a global perspective (28). This approach employs quantitative methods to 
predict and explain economic trajectories of geographic regions (29–31), often employing 
measures of relatedness, which inform changes in specialization and explain particular outcomes 
based on existing specializations (28). These methods of complexity, relatedness, and application 
of dimensionality reduction are well-served to examine the production and exportation of 
knowledge. The economic complexity approach is closely aligned with contemporary 
perspectives in economic geography, which focus on issues such as path dependence, lock-in, 
and proximity (32, 33). Developments toward evolutionary economic geography (34) recognize 

 
 
the relationship between macro- and micro-level perspectives: in the words of Boschma and 
Frenken (33), how “spatial structure of the economy emerge from and are transformed by the 
micro-behaviour of individual and collective agents, and why and how these pro...
--
9031:... in a country. 
 
The study of economic output with respect to the “product space”—i.e., the network of 
relatedness between exported products—reveals that the networked structure of industrial 
advantage is critical to understanding the economic development of nations (31). Following the 
well-trodden path of Adam Smith, economists argue that division of labor—that is, 
specialization—is related to economic efficiency; therefore, development is associated with 

 
 
increased capacity and complexity (28, 35). This argument has been explored in regards to 
economic exports (35); however, less attention has been paid to the relationship between the 
complexity of scientific exports and economic development, as well as potential universal 
aspects of these relationships.  
 
In this study, we apply maps of science (30–33) and Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) 
(23)—a common measure for quantifying the economic and production advantages of countries 
(31)—to examine national science production, by considering scientific disciplines as types of 
“products” that are exported by countries. That is, we investigate a nation’s scientific 
development thr...
--
16681:...onomic power increases, their scientific exports move towards a 
more balanced portfolio. 
The principle of relatedness 
To understand the temporal evolution of national research portfolios, we first examine whether the 
development (or the loss) of revealed comparative advantage follows the principle of relatedness 
(9–12), which predicts that countries are more likely to develop a new advantage in a discipline 
that is close to their existing advantages (see Figure 2). By examining the entry (exit) of advantages 
across each subsequent time step (see Methods), we show the principle of relatedness indeed holds 
(see Figure 3a-b). The probability of a discipline’s entry increases with the density of proximate 
specialized disciplines (b = 0.33, 95% CI=[0.30, 0.36]); the probability of a discipline’s exit 
follows the opposite pattern (b = -0.93, 95% CI=[-0.94,-0.92]). 
 
Moreover, if we aggregate countries based on income groups, we further discover that low-income 
countries are more strongly constrained by the principle of relatedness than others (one-tailed t-
test t19=34, P<0.001) (See Figure 3c-d). In other words, it is more difficult for low-income countries 
to develop a new relative advantage if it is not in the vicinity of already existing advantage, while 
wealthy countries are more likely to develop new a...
--
[13 more matches not shown]
