warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.10812
Type: PDF
Pattern: RCA|threshold|exit|lose|lost|AUC|precision|consecutive|entry|density|persist (72 matches in 65512 chars)

--- Content ---

6473:...tion and showed that high GDP countries 
specialize in biomedicine, formerly communist countries specialize in basic science and 
engineering, and less developed countries specialize in agriculture. Cimini et al. (27) arrived at a 
different conclusion, showing that—rather than specializing—technologically-leading countries 
have been active in a diversity of scientific domains.  
 
Economic complexity framework provides a useful lens to evaluate economic and scientific 
transformations from a global perspective (28). This approach employs quantitative methods to 
predict and explain economic trajectories of geographic regions (29–31), often employing 
measures of relatedness, which inform changes in specialization and explain particular outcomes 
based on existing specializations (28). These methods of complexity, relatedness, and application 
of dimensionality reduction are well-served to examine the production and exportation of 
knowledge. The economic complexity approach is closely aligned with contemporary 
perspectives in economic geography, which focus on issues such as path dependence, lock-in, 
and proximity (32, 33). Developments toward evolutionary economic geography (34) recognize 

 
 
the relationship between macro- and micro-level perspectives: in the words of Boschma and 
Frenken (33), how “spatial structure of the economy emerge from and are transformed by th...
--
8457:...ess with existing topics in cities. Guevara and 
colleagues (11) constructed a research space by using career trajectories of scientists and 
demonstrated that the research space could predict research evolution of individuals, 
organizations, and countries. Chinazzi et al. (2019) used an embedding method to predict 
research evolution in urban areas, providing evidence that the average knowledge density in 
physics is correlated with scientific and economic development in a country. 
 
The study of economic output with respect to the “product space”—i.e., the network of 
relatedness between exported products—reveals that the networked structure of industrial 
advantage is critical to understanding the economic development of nations (31). Following the 
well-trodden path of Adam Smith, economists argue that division of labor—that is, 
specialization—is related to economic efficiency; therefore, development is associated with 

 
 
increased capacity and complexity (28, 35). This argument has been explored in regards to 
economic exports (35); however, less attention has been paid to the relationship between the 
complexity of scientific exports and economic development, as well as potential universal 
aspects of these relationships.  
 
In this study, we apply maps of science (30–33) and Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) 
(23)—a common measure for quantifying the economic and production advantages of countries 
(31)—to examine national science production, by considering scientific disciplines as types of 
“products” that are exported by countries. That is, we investigate a nation’s scientific 
development through scientific exports, in which research articles produced by a country and 
indexed in international b...
--
10607:...e the best proxies for exportation. This is not to 
diminish localized scientific activity, but to create a measurement that approximates economic 
exportation. This allows us to examine how knowledge is constructed within and flows across 
countries and can be used to inform science policy.  

 
 
Results 
Geography of revealed comparative advantage 
We employ the Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) (23) to assess each nation’s relative 
disciplinary strengths based on publications indexed by the Web of Science database (see Methods). 
If country 𝑐 produces a greater share of its publications in field 𝑖 compared to the world average 
share in the discipline, then RCA!,# > 1 and country 𝑐 is considered to have a revealed 
comparative advantage (or specialization) in discipline 𝑖. 
 
We calculated the RCA for all combinations of 143 disciplines and all countries in our dataset. 
As expected, the patterns of relative advantage reflect a range of historical, geographical, and 
cultural factors (see Figure 1). For instance, countries with relative strength in Botany are located 
in tropical areas rich in botanical resources; Anthropology and Archaeology features both 
wealthy and developing nations, ...
--
15912:...hods). Aggregating countries based on their income-level classification 
(47) reveals that niches are largely related to national wealth (see Figure 2b-d). Low-income 
countries (e.g., Afghanistan, Ethiopia, and South Sudan) tend to be confined to the Natural 
cluster; some of the low-middle countries extend towards the Physical disciplines whereas 

 
 
upper-middle income countries are located closer to the center. High-income countries 
(e.g., United States, France, and Japan) tend to occupy the center and the space between Natural 
and Societal, suggesting balanced exportation. This pattern suggests there might be a universal 
tendency that as a nation’s economic power increases, their scientific exports move towards a 
more balanced portfolio. 
The principle of relatedness 
To understand the temporal evolution of national research portfolios, we first examine whether the 
development (or the loss) of revealed comparative advantage follows the principle of relatedness 
(9–12), which predicts that countries are more likely to develop a new advantage in a discipline 
that is close to their existing advantages (see Figure 2). By examining the entry (exit) of advantages 
across each subsequent time step (see Methods), we show the principle of relatedness indeed holds 
(see Figure 3a-b). The probability of a discipline’s entry increases with the density of proximate 
specialized disciplines (b = 0.33, 95% CI=[0.30, 0.36]); the probability of a discipline’s exit 
follows the opposite pattern (b = -0.93, 95% CI=[-0.94,-0.92]). 
 
Moreover, if we aggregate countries based on income groups, we further discover that low-income 
countries are more strongly constrained by the principle of relatedness than others (one-tailed t-
test t19=34, P<0.001) (See Figure 3c-d). In other words, it is more difficult for low-income countries 
to develop a new relative advan...
--
17812:...t in the vicinity of already existing advantage, while 
wealthy countries are more likely to develop new advantage, thanks to the already existing diverse 
and complex research portfolio with broader and higher disciplinary production, allowing them to 

 
 
make less portfolio-dependent choices when building scientific capacity. Our result aligns with the 
recently reported pattern that low-complexity economies experience stronger pull from relatedness 
and are less likely to enter unrelated activities (48).  
 
The principle of relatedness shapes scientific development, but to what extent? We compare the 
actual trajectories with a null model that is solely based on the principle of relatedness (see 
Methods). As shown in Figure 3e, the predicted research profiles converge towards the center...
--
20426:...h as China. 
Relationships between scientific activities and economic growth 
Motivated by the connection between the economic wealth and their scientific niches and the 
increasing diversity shown above, we investigate the relationships among scientific diversity, 
publication volume and economic performance. We measure the diversity of a scientific portfolio 
with the Gini index of disciplinary RCA values (see Methods). For convenience, we define the 
scientific diversity of a nation as one minus their Gini index. High scientific diversity corresponds 
to a more balanced and diversified portfolio, whereas low scientific diversity indicates more 
skewed and specialized exportation.  
 
We find that the number of publications, scientific diversity, GDP and ECI (Economic Complexity 
Indicator) are all strongly correlated with each other (publication and diversity: Pearson’s r=0.91, 
publication and GDP: Pearson’s r=0.92, and publication and ECI: Pearson’s r=0.75) (see Figure 
5). Over the past 40 years, the average number of publications as well as the average scientific 
diversity of all income groups  have been steadily increasing  (see Figure 5d-e). However, this 

 
 
steady growth is not enough to close the gap between income groups, the gap between high-income 
countries and low-income countries remains wide. Although scientific diversity is correlated with 
the number of publications, the diversification of research portfolio cannot be explained by the 
increase in the number of publications alone (t1561=17.02, P<.001) (see Supplementary Figure 9 
for the detail). 
 
Our results with two-way f...
--
23702:...ter might have played an important role in its economic growth, our models do not 
provide enough evidence to demonstrate whether the strength in Physical cluster is associated with 
the future economic growth across countries. The relationship between scientific development and 
economic development may be contingent on countries and complex.  
 
In contrast to the theory that diversity and complexity of economy are closely linked to the 
economic growth, we could not find strong associations between the diversity of scientific 
portfolio and economic growth. Scientific diversity could neither predict GDP growth nor predict 
the growth of publication (t704=-0.78, P=0.44, effect size=-0.08, 95% CI=[-0.27,0.11]) (see Table 
1) and (t704 =-0.77, P=0.44, effect size=-0.10, 95% CI=[-0.36,0.16]) (see Supplementary Table...
--
28073:...estimates research from western 
countries and publications in English while underestimating the production in other nations and 
languages (see Supplementary Information). Still, we argue that our operationalization is 
reasonable under the analogy to product exportation (31, 35) and the status of English as the de-
facto lingua franca (58) of science. Second, many of our analyses considered the RCA matrix as 
a bipartite network. This approximation is not strictly valid because the edges are not independent 
from each other. Finally, our regression models are not free from multicollinearity issues as there 
exist significant correlation between GDP and the number of publications. Moreover, we show that 
the inferred relationships between scientific enterprise and economic growth can be easily driven 
by a small number of countries by demonstrating that the association between the publications in 
Physical cluster and economic growth is driven by China, which have achieved strong growth in 
both scientific production in Physical cluster and economy. Due to the complexity of economic 
and scientific development, we note that reliable causal inference with country-level data is often 
infeasible, and our results do not necessarily confirm nor reject a direct causal relationship between 

 
 
national scientific development and economic growth. There exist many unobserved hidden 
confounders and complex feedback mechanisms between scientific and economic developmen...
--
33359:... Income classification 
comes from World bank database (47) which contains 224 countries between 1987 and 2018. We 
convert the annual classification to a time snapshot classification by assigning each country to its 
most frequent income group during each period. See Supplementary Information’s data section 
for more details. 
 
Revealed Comparative Advantage. The revealed comparative advantage (RCA) of country 𝑐 in 
discipline 𝑖 is defined as: 
RCA!,# =
𝒫(𝑐, 𝑖)/ ∑𝒫
#
(𝑐, 𝑖)
∑𝒫
!
(𝑐, 𝑖)/ ∑
𝒫
!,#
(𝑐, 𝑖) 
where 𝒫(𝑐, 𝑖) is the number of publications produced and “exported”—the number of publications 
which is indexed in the Web of Science—by country 𝑐 in discipline 𝑖, ∑𝒫
#
(𝑐, 𝑖) is the total 
number of publications produced by country 𝑐, ∑𝒫
!
(𝑐, 𝑖) is the total number of publications 
produced in a discipline globally, and ∑
𝒫
!,#
(𝑐, 𝑖) is the total number of publications across all 
countries and disciplines.  
 

 
 
Disciplinary Proximity. The proximity between disciplines 𝑖 and 𝑗 is defined as the minimum of 
the pairwise conditional probabilities of a country having an advantage (RCA > 1) in one 
discipline given an advantage in another: 
𝜙#$ = min{𝑃(RCA# > 1|RCA$ > 1), 𝑃(RCA$ > 1|RCA# > 1)} 
𝜙 is a 143 × 143 matrix that captures the proximity between pairs of disciplines (see 
Supplementary Figure 4). 
 
Identifying the disciplinary clusters. The relatedness network is constructed from the 
disciplinary proximity matrix derived from aggregating data across all years (from 1973 to 
2017). The network is fixed over the analysis. Although the network structure changes over time, 
networks derived from a snapshot of data closely resemble with the aggregated network (see 
Supplementary  Figure 5). The multi-scale backbone extraction method (44) exposes three visual 
clusters when laid out with a force-directed layout algorithm (Gephi’s ForceAtlas2). We formally 
confirm the structure by applying a community detection algorithm (the Leiden algorithm (45)) 
to the full network. We use modularity as the quality function an...
--
35463:...Other methods produce similar results although some partitions the network 
into smaller communities (see Supplementary Information’s Disciplinary Relatedness Network 
section).  
 
Position within the simplex. Position within the simplex measure countries’ cluster-level 
specialization concentration. We first calculate  𝐶# = 𝑛# 𝑁#
⁄
, where 𝑛# is the number of 

 
 
disciplines in cluster 𝑖 with RCA > 1, 𝑁#  is the total number of disciplines in cluster 𝑖. Then we 
normalize 𝐶# so that ∑𝐶# = 1
#
.    
 
The Density of existing advantages and the null development model. The density of existing 
advantages around a given discipline is defined as follows: 
𝜔$
% =
∑𝑥#𝜙#$
#
∑𝜙#$
#
 
where 𝜙#$ is the proximity between discipline 𝑖 and 𝑗, and 𝑥# = 1 if 𝑅𝐶𝐴%# > 1 else 𝑥# = 0, and 
the density of exi...
--
[37 more matches not shown]
