warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: http://econ.geo.uu.nl/peeg/peeg0916.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: exit|entry|RCA|density|predict|variable|lagged|closure (95 matches in 74094 chars)

--- Content ---

1380:...ion of the economic landscape in Sweden is subject to strong path dependencies.
Industries that were technologically related to pre-existing industries in a region had a higher
probability to enter the region, as compared to unrelated industries. And unrelated industries
had a higher probability to exit the region. Moreover, we found that industrial profiles of
Swedish regions showed a high degree of technological coherence. Despite substantial
structural change, this coherence was very persistent over time. Our methodology also proved
useful when focusing on the economic evolution of one particular region. Our analysis
showed that the Linköping region increased its industrial coherence during 30 years, due to
1 Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands (neffke@ese.eur.nl)
2 Lund University, Sweden (martin@keg.lu.se)
3 Utrecht University, The Netherlands (r.boschma@geo.uu.nl)

2
the entry of industries that were closely related to its regional portfolio on the one hand, and
the exit of industries that were technologically peripheral to its regional portfolio on the other
hand. In sum, we find systematic evidence that the rise and fall of industries is strongly
conditioned by industrial relatedness at the regional level.
Key words: technological relatedness, related variety, re...
--
4732:... out
into technologically related industries.
Our second objective is to test the empirical validity of this hypothesis of regional branching.
In order to do so, we make use of a recently developed method to accurately quantify
technological relatedness between industries, and we assess whether the entry of new
industries and the exit of existing industries in regions depend on the degree to which these
industries are related to the regional production structure. On the basis of this, on the one
hand, we analyze whether – and if so, quantify the extent to which – local economies in
Sweden can be said to be technological cohesive...
--
6200:...bor market regions in Sweden.
The third objective is to investigate how information on industry relatedness can be used as a
tool in case studies of a region to understand its economic evolution. As an example, we take
the Linköping region. Among other things, our analysis highlights how successive exits of
textiles related industries gave rise to a cascading effect that resulted in the loss of an entire
technological cluster of industries in that region.

5
The structure of the article is as follows. In Section 2, we discuss the relationship between
industry relatedness and regional development i...
--
22878:...
each
region
follows
its
own
industrial trajectory (Rigby and
Essletzbichler, 1997). Third, this path dependent process implies there is some degree of
coherence in the industrial profile of a region. However, this coherence is constantly being
redefined through the process of creative destruction. Entry of new industries in a region,
although technologically related to existing local industries, is likely to inject new variety into
the region, and will lower technological coherence. In contrast, exits of existing industries
will increase the industrial coherence of regions, because unrelated industries are more likely
to be selected out, leading to a decrease in variety. We will test these ideas empirically to
determine whether, and to what extent, regional industrial structures can be said to ...
--
28570:...mbination (݅,݆) that would be expected
on the basis of such industry level characteristics alone. We run a regression of the observed
co-occurrences ܮ௜௝on the overall profitability, employment and number of active plants in
both industries. Using the estimated parameters it is possible to calculate predictions of the
7 Because the precision of the estimates in symmetric RR matrices is higher, we only use symmetric
relatedness in this article (see Neffke and Svensson Henning 2008).

16
number of co-occurrences, ܮ෠௜௝, for each combination of industries (݅,݆). For instance, in our
data the predicted “baseline” number of co-occurrences between industries 382200
(manufacture of agricultural machinery and equipment) and 384320 (manufacture of motor
vehicles engines, parts and trailers) in 1980 based on profitability, number of employees and
number of plants in both industries, is be 4.99. This prediction is then compared to the
observed number of co-occurrences, which for the example above was 36. The observed
number of co-occurrences exceeds in this case expectations by a factor of 7.21, which
indicates that the industries are strongly related to one another. In the third step, this factor is
m...
--
40529:...ies above the dotted line). In Figure 4, this is clearly the
case for all years.
-­‐
Figure 4 about here -­‐
Although cohesion of relatedness seems to be a stable phenomenon over time, the graphs
might obscure a substantial amount of structural change as new industries enter and existing
industries exit regions. Therefore, for all industries that exit or enter a region within a five-
year window, we plotted their average closeness to the corresponding regional portfolios. The
line with the upward triangles denotes the closeness of entering industries to the portfolio. The
line with the downward triangles denotes the closeness of exiting industries to the portfolio.
The line that represents entries is always above the (dotted) non-portfolio line. This means
that the industries that enter a region are strikingly closer to the region’s portfolio, than the
industries that remain outside this portfolio. Or, to turn things around, regions indeed
diversify into industries that are related to their current portfolios of industries. Remarkably,
not only the line representing entries, but also the line that represents exits lies above the grey

23
(non-portfolio line). This is in fact not that surprising: we already saw that regional portfolios
are in general cohesive, meaning that industries that were former members were probably not
completely unrelated to the other economic activities in the region. However, the exits-line is
always well below the (solid) portfolio line. That is, although these exiting industries were not
unrelated to the other local industries, on average, their technologically position vis-à-vis the
regional portfolio was rather peripheral.
Upon closer inspection of the entry-line, entries turn out to be generally not more closely
related to the portfolio than existing portfolio members are. If anything, the entry line is below
the portfolio line and entrants should decrease the technological cohesion of a portfolio.13
This is in line with the evolutionary notion of mutations, according to which new activities
increase the variety in a population. As the exit line is well below the portfolio line, exits, on
the other hand, should increase the average cohesion of a region, analogously to the variation
reducing effect of natural selection. The net effect of mutations and selection is a coherence
that seems to be remarkably stable over time.
In sum, we find three different regularities that relate t...
--
43854:...al development, comparable to filling a structural hole in
network theory.

24
third regularity is that industries that belong to a portfolio, but are at its technological
periphery, are more likely to leave the region. In the next section, we examine these results
further.
6. Portfolio membership, entry, and exit
Let us start by defining dummy variables for membership, entry and exit in the industrial
portfolio of a region. The membership dummy takes on the value 1 if an industry݅
is part of
the industrial portfolio of region ݎat time ݐ. The entry dummy takes on the value 1 if an
industry݅
does not belong to the industrial portfolio of region ݎat time ݐ, but enters this
portfolio by time ݐ+ 5. The exit dummy takes on the value 1 if an industry݅
is part of the
industrial portfolio of region ݎat time ݐ, but leaves the region by time ݐ+ 5. Formally:
(4)ܾ݉݁݉݁
ݎ௜௥௧= ܫ൫݅אܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ)൯
(5)݁݊
ݐݎݕ௜௥௧= ܫ൫݅בܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ) ר݅
אܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ+ 5)൯
(6)݁
ݔ݅ݐ௜௥௧= ܫ൫݅אܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ) ר݅
בܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ+ 5)൯
Table 1 shows the correlations between these dummies and closeness to the regional
portfolios if we pool data on all 70 regions and all 5-year periods between 1969 and 2002.
Obviously, in order to be able to enter a portfolio an industry first has to be absent from the
regional portfolio and an industry can only exit the region if before it used to be a part of the
regional portfolio. In the table, we have restricted the samples for the correlations with entry
and exit dummies accordingly.

25
-­‐
Table 1 about here -­‐
As expected, entry and membership are both positively correlated and exit is negatively
correlated with both closeness measures. Although the correlations may not strike one as
particularly high, they are strongly significant in a statistical sense. To find out whether the
impact of closeness variables on regional portfolios is also economically significant, we
analyze how these variables affect entry, exit and membership probabilities. In the five-yearly
sample, summed across all years and all time periods, there are 2,766 events of an industry
entering a region. An industry can only enter a certain region in a given period if it did not yet
belong to the region’s portfolio at the beginning of the period. In total there were 52,226 such
entry opportunities. That is, summed across all time periods, there were 52,226 industry-
region combinations for which the industries did not belong to the portfolio of the
corresponding
region.
As
a
result,
we
can
estimate
the
entry
probability
to
be
2,766/52,226=5.3%. Similarly, the overall exit probability was 16.6%, since there were 3,464
events of an industry leaving a region and 20,854 exit opportunities. Finally, membership
probability is estimated to be 28.5% (20,854 out of all 73,080 possible regional industries
existed). Each industry-region combination can be attributed to a speci...
--
[55 more matches not shown]
