warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: http://econ.geo.uu.nl/peeg/peeg0916.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: exit|closure|leave|Table [0-9]|density|closeness (113 matches in 74094 chars)

--- Content ---

1380:...ness
between manufacturing industries, we analyze the economic evolution of 70 Swedish regions
during the period 1969-2002 using detailed plant-level data. Our analyses show that the long-
term evolution of the economic landscape in Sweden is subject to strong path dependencies.
Industries that were technologically related to pre-existing industries in a region had a higher
probability to enter the region, as compared to unrelated industries. And unrelated industries
had a higher probability to exit the region. Moreover, we found that industrial profiles of
Swedish regions showed a high degree of technological coherence. Despite substantial
structural change, this coherence was very persistent over time. Our methodology also proved
useful when focusing on the economic evolution of one particular region. Our analysis
showed that the Linköping region increased its industrial coherence during 30 years, due to
1 Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands (neffke@ese.eur.nl)
2 Lund University, Sweden (martin@keg.lu.se)
3 Utrecht University, The Netherlands (r.boschma@geo.uu.nl)

2
the entry of industries that were closely related to its regional portfolio on the one hand, and
the exit of industries that were technologically peripheral to its regional portfolio on the other
hand. In sum, we find systematic evidence that the rise and fall of industries is strongly
conditioned by industrial relatedness at the regional level.
Key words: technological relatedness, related variety, regional branching, regional
diversification
JEL codes: R11, N94, O14

3
How do regions diversify over time? Industry relatedness and the development of new
growth paths in regions
1. Introduction
Regio...
--
4764:... economies, giving rise to significant path dependencies. Accordingly, we will
explain why regions cannot simply diversify into any new industry, but will rather branch out
into technologically related industries.
Our second objective is to test the empirical validity of this hypothesis of regional branching.
In order to do so, we make use of a recently developed method to accurately quantify
technological relatedness between industries, and we assess whether the entry of new
industries and the exit of existing industries in regions depend on the degree to which these
industries are related to the regional production structure. On the basis of this, on the one
hand, we analyze whether – and if so, quantify the extent to which – local economies in
Sweden can be said to be technological cohesive. On the other hand, we study the processes
of local creative destruction over a period of more than 30 years. That is, we study which
industries enter a region and which industries leave. Comparing this to the extent to which
these industries are related to other industries in the region, we can show that the process of
regional diversification is indeed conditioned by existing regional structures. In particular, we
find that the more technologically related industries are to pre-existing industries in a region,
the more likely they are to enter the region. Similarly, the more peripheral industries are in a
technological sense, the higher the probability that they will leave the region. These analyses
are carried out at a high level of detail, distinguishing between 174 major manufacturing
industries and 70 different labor market regions in Sweden.
The third objective is to investigate how information on industry relatedness can be used as a
tool in case studies of a region to understand its economic evolution. As an example, we take
the Linköping region. Among other things, our analysis highlights how successive exits of
textiles related industries gave rise to a cascading effect that resulted in the loss of an entire
technological cluster of industries in that region.

5
The structure of the article is as follows. In Section 2, we discuss the relationship between
industry relatedness and regional development in an evolutionary framework. In Section 3, we
explain briefly how we constructed our industrial relatedness measure. In Section 4, we
introduce the data. In Section 5, we use this measure to study the...
--
22371:... they will further contribute to the process of
regional branching, because social networks tend to be highly localized (Breschi and Lissoni,
2003).
The implications of all the above are not to be underestimated. First, the way the
Schumpeterian process of creative destruction shapes the economic landscape should be
affected by industry relatedness at the regional level, as the relatedness among industries

13
would have an impact on which new industries enter and which existing industries will leave
a region. Second, the rise and fall of industries are conditioned by regional industrial
structures laid down in the past, which would support the notion of regional path dependency,
according to
which
each
region
follows
its
own
industrial trajectory (Rigby and
Essletzbichler, 1997). Third, this path dependent process implies there is some degree of
coherence in the industrial profile of a region. However, this coherence is constantly being
redefined through the process of creative destruction. Entry of new industries in a region,
although technologically related to existing local industries, is likely to inject new variety into
the region, and will lower technological coherence. In contrast, exits of existing industries
will increase the industrial coherence of regions, because unrelated industries are more likely
to be selected out, leading to a decrease in variety. We will test these ideas empirically to
determine whether, and to what extent, regional industrial structures can be said to be
coherent on the one hand, and how this coherence evolves through the creation of new
industries and destruction of existing industries on the other hand.
3. Measuring relatedness: the revealed rela...
--
38940:...l portfolio in this graph by
coloring all local industries of the region blue. Lines that connect two nodes indicate that the
two industries are related, which we here take to mean that the relatedness between them is at
least 0.25. For instance, industry 3, which is part of the regional portfolio, is related to
industries 1, 2, 5 and 6. Industries 1, 2 and 6 are part of the regional portfolio. As in total there
are three industries that exhibit a relatedness of at least 0.25 to industry 3, the closeness of
industry 3 to the regional portfolio is 3. Similarly, we can see that the closeness of industry
20, which is absent in this particular region, is equal to 2.
-­‐
Figure 3 about here -
The average of the closeness values across all industries that are present in a regional portfolio
can be regarded as a quantification of the technological cohesion of a regional economy:
\
(3)݄ܶ݁ܿ݊
݋݈݋݈݃݅ܿܽܿ
݋݄݁
ݏ݅݋݊
௥= σ
ܥ݈݋ݏ݁݊݁
ݏݏ௜௥
௜א௉ி
For instance, in the situation of Figure 3, the technological cohesion of the depicted region
equals (3 + 3 + 3 + 2 + 2 + 1 + 0 + 2 + 1 + 1) 10 = 1.8.

22
Figure 4 describes the evolution of the average technological cohesion across all Swedish
regions. The solid line in this figure depicts the closeness of industries to their regional
portfolios, averaged across the whole of Sweden at a five-year interval. The dotted line
depicts the average closeness of all industries in the portfolio to the industries that are not a
part of the regional portfolio. This provides us with a baseline against which we can compare
technological cohesiveness. We will say that a regional portfolio is cohesive if its members
are closer to each other than to industries that do not belong to the regional portfolio (that is,
regions are cohesive if the solid line lies above the dotted line). In Figure 4, this is clearly the
case for all years.
-­‐
Figure 4 about here -­‐
Although cohesion of relatedness seems to be a stable phenomenon over time, the graphs
might obscure a substantial amount of structural change as new industries enter and existing
industries exit regions. Therefore, for all industries that exit or enter a region within a five-
year window, we plotted their average closeness to the corresponding regional portfolios. The
line with the upward triangles denotes the closeness of entering industries to the portfolio. The
line with the downward triangles denotes the closeness of exiting industries to the portfolio.
The line that represents entries is always above the (dotted) non-portfolio line. This means
that the industries that enter a region are strikingly closer to the region’s portfolio, than the
industries that remain outside this portfolio. Or, to turn things around, regions indeed
diversify into industries that are related to their current portfolios of industries. Remarkably,
not only the line representing entries, but also the line that represents exits lies above the grey

23
(non-portfolio line). This is in fact not that surprising: we already saw that regional portfolios
are in general cohesive, meaning that industries that were former members were probably not
completely unrelated to the other economic activities in the region. However, the exits-line is
always well below the (solid) portfolio line. That is, although these exiting industries were not
unrelated to the other local industries, on average, their technologically position vis-à-vis the
regional portfolio was rather peripheral.
Upon closer inspection of the entry-line, entries turn out to be generally not more closely
related to the portfolio than existing portfolio members are. If anything, the entry line is below
the portfolio line and entrants should decrease the technological cohesion of a portfolio.13
This is in line with the evolutionary notion of mutations, according to which new activities
increase the variety in a population. As the exit line is well below the portfolio line, exits, on
the other hand, should increase the average cohesion of a region, analogously to the variation
reducing effect of natural selection. The net effect of mutations and selection is a coherence
that seems to be remarkably stable over time.
In sum, we find three different regularities that relate to our research questions. The first is
that regional production portfolios are cohesive, and remain so over time. As a corollary one
would expect that, if an industry is technologically close to a regional portfolio chances are
high that it is actually a part of that portfolio. The second is that industries that do not belong
to a regional portfolio are more likely to enter portfolios they are technologically close to. The
13 In practice, however, entering industries with a closeness to the portfolio members that is lower than
the closeness among the portfolio members themselves can lead to a higher overall cohesion. This
happens whenever an industry fills a “gap” in the region’s portfolio and takes a central position among
a number of otherwise rather disparate portfolio members. Because of this bridging feature, these
entries might have a huge effect on regional development, comparable to filling a structural hole in
network theory.

24
third regularity is that industries that belong to a portfolio, but are at its technological
periphery, are more likely to leave the region. In the next section, we examine these results
further.
6. Portfolio membership, entry, and exit
Let us start by defining dummy variables for membership, entry and exit in the industrial
portfolio of a region. The membership dummy takes on the value 1 if an industry݅
is part of
the industrial portfolio of region ݎat time ݐ. The entry dummy takes on the value 1 if an
industry݅
does not belong to the industrial portfolio of region ݎat time ݐ, but enters this
portfolio by time ݐ+ 5. The exit dummy takes on the value 1 if an industry݅
is part of the
industrial portfolio of region ݎat time ݐ, but leaves the region by time ݐ+ 5. Formally:
(4)ܾ݉݁݉݁
ݎ௜௥௧= ܫ൫݅אܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ)൯
(5)݁݊
ݐݎݕ௜௥௧= ܫ൫݅בܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ) ר݅
אܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ+ 5)൯
(6)݁
ݔ݅ݐ௜௥௧= ܫ൫݅אܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ) ר݅
בܲ
ܨ(ݎ, ݐ+ 5)൯
Table 1 shows the correlations between these dummies and closeness to the regional
portfolios if we pool data on all 70 regions and all 5-year periods between 1969 and 2002.
Obviously, in order to be able to enter a portfolio an in...
--
[83 more matches not shown]
