warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.16316
Type: PDF
Pattern: exit|lose|loss|disappear|density|RCA|persist|keep (205 matches in 68814 chars)

--- Content ---

405:...ERIT 
 
 
Abstract: 
We aim to contribute to the literature on product space and diversification by proposing 
a number of extensions of the current literature: (1) we propose that the alternative but 
related idea of a country space also has empirical and theoretical appeal; (2) we argue 
that the loss of comparative advantage should be an integral part of (testing the empirical 
relevance of) the product space idea; (3) we propose several new indicators for 
measuring relatedness in product space; and (4) we propose a non-parametric statistical 
test based on bootstrapping to test the empirical ...
--
2387:...ur aim in this paper is to extend and elaborate on the idea of product space in several 
ways. In particular, we aim to develop the idea in four different ways: (1) we propose that 
the alternative but related idea of a country space also has empirical and theoretical 
appeal; (2) we argue that the loss of comparative advantage should be an integral part of 
(testing the empirical relevance of) the product space idea; (3) we propose several new 
indicators for measuring relatedness in product space, including one measure that 
decomposes the probability of gaining new specializations into related ...
--
3018:...ion, and which, thereby, provides a more precise measure of path-dependency 
in product space; and (4) we propose a non-parametric statistical test based on 
bootstrapping to test the empirical relevance of the product space idea both at the 
country- and product-level, and including both gains and losses of comparative 
advantage. Before introducing these new ideas, we will first provide a brief overview of 
the existing literature, and use this to position the proposed extensions that are developed 
in the next sections. 
The product space idea has profound implications for development. In a nut...
--
4819:...d in all products at the same time. Hence, if new specializations are added 

2 
 
(diversification), we must also expect that at some point old specializations will vanish. 
This is clearly visible in the data that we will use below. In our dataset, 59 out of 155 
countries have a higher number of losses than gains of comparative advantages over the 
six-year period 2012 – 2018. China, which is a country that is often seen as an example of 
development through diversification, did have a net gain of 143 comparative advantages 
over the period, but it lost 224 as well as gained 367. The loss of comparative advantage 
as an important part of the diversification process leads us to the second aim of the paper 
as formulated above, and also inspires our newly proposed indicators (third aim above).  
The empirical evidence tends to show that the product space is an attractive idea. 
Hausman and Klinger (2007) introduce the so-called density measure for related 
diversification opportunities (we will discuss this measure in more detail below). Density 
is defined at the country (or region) – product level, and it measures how strongly the 
country or region is related to a specific product, through the existing specialization 
pattern of the country/region and the underlying product relatedness. Thus, if a country 
is already specialized in many...
--
6226:...ic product j, then 
the country will have a strong relatedness to product j, and if the country is not already 
specialized in j, then we may predict that diversification is likelier to lead to a new 
specialization in product j.  
Hausman and Klinger (2007) use a t-test to show that the average of density of new 
specializations of countries is higher than the average density of unrealized 
diversification opportunities. They also employ OLS regressions with a comparative 
advantage indicator as the dependent variable and density as an explanatory variable to 
make the same point. The significantly positive sign of the density variable is taken as 
support for the product space idea of path dependence in specialization patterns. 
The regression approach has also been followed in subsequent literature, e.g., Boschma 
and Capone (2015, 2016), Bahar et al. (2017), all performed similar regressions on a 
sample of countries ...
--
7204:...ly the regression 
approach to Mexican regions. Guo and He (2015) apply the same regression approach to 
data on industrial employment data (including production for the domestic market). 
Coniglio et al. (2021), on the other hand, employ a non-parametric approach by 
comparing the distributions of density for cases where comparative advantage was 
actually gained and cases where comparative advantage could potentially be gained (i.e., 
comparative advantage did not exist). These studies overwhelmingly support the 
theoretical idea of product space and the path dependence of specializations that it 
...
--
8659:...cializations. Section 4 summarizes our analysis and proposes some 
avenues for further development of the literature.  
 
2. Measures 
In this section, we develop a set of new measures for the relatedness between countries 
(or regions) and products. We start by summarizing the formalization of the density 
measure that is currently the most used measure. We then move on to propose new 
measures based on two of our proposals that we introduced above: the inclusion of the 
absence loss of comparative advantage, or, in other words, mutually exclusive 
specializations,  in the analysis, and the idea of a “country space”.  
 
2.1. The density measure 
The most commonly used measure for a country’s opportunities for diversification is 
referred to as density. This measure is based on the idea that a country’s current 
specialization structure (partly) determines which products are likely targets for 
developing new comparative advantages (diversification). Diversification itself is 
measured through the notion of comparative advantage, denoted by the m...
--
10126:...t, and each product is exported 
by at least one country (this ensures that all elements of X are well-defined). A given X 
matrix contains a total of  𝑟= ∑
∑
𝑥𝑖𝑗
∀𝑗∈{1,2,..𝑛}
∀𝑖∈{1,2,..𝑚}
 revealed comparative advantages. 
The elements of X are measures of so-called Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) of 
the column-country in the row-product. The density metric for related diversification 
(Klinger and Hausman, 2007) draws on the notion of conditional probability in RCA, 
computed on the basis of observed co-occurrences in X. The usual interpretation is that if 
conditional probability is high (low), the products are likely to share a high (low) degree 
of capabilities needed to export them with comparative advantage.  
To formalize this, let kpq denote the number...
--
11380:...
4 
 
where the superscript T indicates a transposed matrix, and S is the matrix with the 
corresponding row-sums of X on the main diagonal and zeros elsewhere. Note that the 
diagonal of S thus contains the ubiquity of respective products, i.e.,  
𝑠𝑖𝑗= {∑
𝑥𝑖𝑘
∀𝑘∈{1,2,..𝑛}
𝑖𝑓 𝑖= 𝑗
0
𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒  
The density metric can be written in matrix format as follows: 
𝐷=
𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑋
𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑂  
with 𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛= min(𝐶, 𝐶𝑇), O a matrix of identical dimensions as X filled with only 1s, and 
the division being element-by-element. 𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛 is the symmetrized conditional probability 
matrix, so that the conditional probability of p on q...
--
12202:...oduct 
‘proximity’. 
The D matrix transforms the pair-wise product proximity information into a normalized 
(in [0,1]) metric of the overall proximity between a given product and all products that 
are in the current specialization portfolio of a given country. The elements 𝑑𝑖𝑗 of matrix D 
are the density of product i for country j (D has dimensions 𝑚× 𝑛, like X), and they reflect 
the sum of the cells of the product j row of 𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛 for which i has a comparative advantage, 
relative to the sum of all elements in the jth row of 𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛. Thus, a hypothetical country 
without any comparative advantages (a country that does not export) would have 𝑑𝑖𝑗= 0 
for all products j, and a hypothetical country that has comparative advantage in all 
products would have 𝑑𝑖𝑗= 1 for all products j.1  
2.2. Mutually exclusive RCA: extending density 
The density indicator exploits information about the current (co-)specializations of a 
country, i.e., which of the entries in the country’s column of the X matrix are 1. We propose 
that there is also valuable information in the patterns in which specializations coincide 
with absence of specializations, i.e., which of the entries in the country’s column of the X 
matrix are 0. The reason for this is that a country cannot be specialized in all products at 
the same time, by construction of the RCA indicator.2 
Thus, if we look at the development pattern of a country, the idea that it will gain 
specializations as it acquires new capabilities implies also a loss of existing specializations 
at some point of time. This does not necessarily mean that capabilities are lost, it results 
 
1 Note that the computation underlying the density measure is somewhat arbitrary. For example, Coniglio 
et al. (2021) use a different (and an equally arbitrary) metric where the proximity between a country and a 
product is computed as the proximity between the given product and the closest one in the specialization 
portfolio of the country. In a footnote, these authors also indicate that yet another alternative would be to 
compute the average distance. 
2 This also means that RCA of a country (in a specific product) can change as a result of changes outside the 
country. For example, if a country k starts exporting more of a particular product j, and ceteris paribus, 
(𝐸𝑖𝑗
𝐸𝑗
⁄ ) (𝐸𝑖𝐸
⁄ )
⁄
 (the non-binary value of RCA) of country i will fall, possibly even below 1, so that the binary 
RCA also changes. 

5 
 
from the fact that scarce resources may better be used to exploit other capabilities (in line 
with basic trade theory). The metaphor of moving through product space implies means 
that, through competition...
--
[175 more matches not shown]
