warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.16316
Type: PDF
Pattern: loss|lost|losing|lose (91 matches in 68814 chars)

--- Content ---

405:...ation 
 
 
Önder Nomaler and Bart Verspagen 
UNU-MERIT 
 
 
Abstract: 
We aim to contribute to the literature on product space and diversification by proposing 
a number of extensions of the current literature: (1) we propose that the alternative but 
related idea of a country space also has empirical and theoretical appeal; (2) we argue 
that the loss of comparative advantage should be an integral part of (testing the empirical 
relevance of) the product space idea; (3) we propose several new indicators for 
measuring relatedness in product space; and (4) we propose a non-parametric statistical 
test based on bootstrapping to test the empirical relevance of the product space idea. 
 
Keywords: ...
--
2387:...ecialization pattern of the country or region.  
Our aim in this paper is to extend and elaborate on the idea of product space in several 
ways. In particular, we aim to develop the idea in four different ways: (1) we propose that 
the alternative but related idea of a country space also has empirical and theoretical 
appeal; (2) we argue that the loss of comparative advantage should be an integral part of 
(testing the empirical relevance of) the product space idea; (3) we propose several new 
indicators for measuring relatedness in product space, including one measure that 
decomposes the probability of gaining new specializations into related and unrelated 
diversification, and which, thereby, provides a more precise measure of path-dependency 
in product space; and (4) we propose a non-parametric statistical test based on 
bootstrapping to test the empirical relevance of the product space idea both at the 
country- and product-level, and including both gains and losses of comparative 
advantage. Before introducing these new ideas, we will first provide a brief overview of 
the existing literature, and use this to position the proposed extensions that are developed 
in the next sections. 
The product space idea has profound implications for development. In a nutshell, it means 
that developed and developing nat...
--
4819:... (or region) cannot, by definition, be 
specialized in all products at the same time. Hence, if new specializations are added 

2 
 
(diversification), we must also expect that at some point old specializations will vanish. 
This is clearly visible in the data that we will use below. In our dataset, 59 out of 155 
countries have a higher number of losses than gains of comparative advantages over the 
six-year period 2012 – 2018. China, which is a country that is often seen as an example of 
development through diversification, did have a net gain of 143 comparative advantages 
over the period, but it lost 224 as well as gained 367. The loss of comparative advantage 
as an important part of the diversification process leads us to the second aim of the paper 
as formulated above, and also inspires our newly proposed indicators (third aim above).  
The empirical evidence tends to show that the product space is an attractive idea. 
Hausman and Klinger (2007) introduce the so-called densi...
--
8844:...In this section, we develop a set of new measures for the relatedness between countries 
(or regions) and products. We start by summarizing the formalization of the density 
measure that is currently the most used measure. We then move on to propose new 
measures based on two of our proposals that we introduced above: the inclusion of the 
absence loss of comparative advantage, or, in other words, mutually exclusive 
specializations,  in the analysis, and the idea of a “country space”.  
 
2.1. The density measure 
The most commonly used measure for a country’s opportunities for diversification is 
referred to as density. This measure is based on the idea that a country’s current 
specialization...
--
13407:...ch of the entries in the country’s column of the X 
matrix are 0. The reason for this is that a country cannot be specialized in all products at 
the same time, by construction of the RCA indicator.2 
Thus, if we look at the development pattern of a country, the idea that it will gain 
specializations as it acquires new capabilities implies also a loss of existing specializations 
at some point of time. This does not necessarily mean that capabilities are lost, it results 
 
1 Note that the computation underlying the density measure is somewhat arbitrary. For example, Coniglio 
et al. (2021) use a different (and an equally arbitrary) metric where the proximity between a country and a 
product is computed as the proximity between the given product and the closest one in the specialization 
portfolio of the country. In a footnote, these authors also indicate that yet another alternative would be to 
compute the average distance. 
2 This also means that RCA of a country (in a specific product) can change as a result of changes outside the 
country. For example, if a country k starts exporting more of a par...
--
26633:.... However, 
rather than the specific test proposed by Coniglio et al, (2021), our test will be based on 
bootstrapping. We will also follow Coniglio et al (2021) in applying the tests to a 
subsample of the pooled country-product dataset, focusing both on individual countries, 
and individual products. Finally, our tests will include tests for the loss of comparative 
advantage as well as gains. 
We have 12 possible indicators (in three groups of four: D, E, E2, 𝐷̃ are the product space 
indicators; 𝐷∗, 𝐸∗, 𝐸2
∗, 𝐷̃∗ are the country space indicators; and 𝐷𝑇𝑜𝑡, 𝐸𝑇𝑜𝑡, 𝐸2
𝑇𝑜𝑡, 𝐷̃𝑇𝑜𝑡 are 
the combined space indicators) that can be used to predict gains and losses of 
specializations (RCA) in matrix X over time. Rather than applying a regression based that 
is the most common approach in the literature, we propose a new non-parametric test, 
and implement it for all 12 indicators.  
 
3.1. Data 
We apply the test to data on international trade by countries, for the period 2012 – 2018. 
The data are taken ...
--
28268:...or each of the years 2012 – 2018. 
We then construct changes of RCA over all possible combinations of years. Thus, if we look 
at years t1 and t0, we calculate the matrix 𝑋1 −𝑋0, where the non-zero elements of this 
matrix are of interest to our analysis: an element equal to 1 indicates an RCA gained, while 
an element equal to –1 indicates an RCA lost.  
The possible changes are grouped by the length of the period. Thus, we have 6 possible 1-
year changes (2012-13, 2013-14, etc.), 1 possible 6-year change (2012-18), and all the 
combinations in between. This yields 21 possible combinations of years, and we 
implement our test for all 12 indicators with each of those 21 combinations, and for RCAs 
gained as well as RCAs lost.  
 
3.2. Method 
We implement a bootstrapping test for evaluating the predictive power of a specific 
indicator for either RCA gained or RCA lost. When applied to the entire matrix of RCA 
changes (𝑋1 −𝑋0), this test can be formalized as follows: 
H0: Again = Ano-gain 

10 
 
where Again denotes the average value of the indicator over cells with value 1 in matrix 
𝑋1 −𝑋0, and Ano-gain denotes the average value of the indicator over cells with value not 
equal to 1 in matrix 𝑋1 −𝑋0. Thus, th...
--
29537:...age value of the 
indicator for cases that (ex post) reveal themselves as actual RCA-gainers is higher than 
non-gainers.  
We construct a p-value for the null-hypothesis by the following bootstrapping procedure 
(Efron and Tibshirani, 1993, chapter 15): 
1. Identify the potential RCA-gainers (if we are implementing the test for RCA-gains) 
or RCA-losers (if we are implementing the test for RCA-losses). The potential RCA-
gainers are cells in matrix 𝑋0 with value 0. The potential RCA-losers are cells in 
matrix 𝑋0 with value 1. Call the number of potential gainers/losers N. 
2. Divide the set of potential RCA-gainers or -losers into two subsets: the set of actual 
gainers or losers, and the set of non-gainers or non-losers. Call the number of 
actual gainers or losers N1 and note that the number of non-gainers or non-losers 
is N – N1.  
3. Repeat this step 5,000 times: randomly divide the total set of potential gainers or 
losers (there are N members in this set) into one subset of N1 members and one 
subset of N – N1 members. Calculate the average of the value in matrix 𝑋1 −𝑋0 of 
the N1 members in the first subset. Call this average A1, and compare it to the 
empirically observed average value Again.  
4. When testing RCA-gains, calculate p = #A1 ≥ Again/ 5,000, where #A1 ≥ Again denotes 
the number of times where A1 ≥ Again holds in step 3. When testing RCA-losses, 
calculate p = #A1 ≤ Again/ 5,000, where #A1 ≤ Again denotes the number of times 
where A1 ≤ Again holds in step 3.  p is the observed p-value for H0. 
Note that the number of 5,000 repetitions in step 3 of the procedure is arbitrary (Efron 
and Tibshirani, 1993 use 1,000 repetitions in their examples, so our 5,000 repetitions are 
on the safe ...
--
31781:...(individual columns of matrix 𝑋1 −𝑋0; 5,197 
observations enter at step 1).  
Note also that small values of N1 will lead to weak test results: imagine the extreme case 
where N= N1 = 1; this prevents any variety in step 3 of the procedure and hence reduces 
the test to the question of whether the single value of the observation with RCA-gain or -
loss is above or below (respectively) the non-gainers or non-losers. With N > 1 but still 
“small”, we have a less extreme case, but still a relatively weak test. This happens 
especially when we consider RCA-loss, because the group of potential RCA-losers 
(observations that have RCA) is usually (much) smaller than the case of potential gainers. 
The case of small N is also limited to cases where we implement tests on either individual 

11 
 
countries or products. In the empirical implementation of the tests below, we limit the 
cases that we subject to the test to those where N > 15 (admittedl...
--
[61 more matches not shown]
