warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.16316
Type: PDF
Pattern: mutually exclusive|absence|negative relatedness|indicator E|we define E|conclusion|we find|results show (15 matches in 68814 chars)

--- Content ---

8836:...n of how 
one of our indicators can be decomposed to yield a version that is more targeted to path 

3 
 
dependence of specializations. Section 4 summarizes our analysis and proposes some 
avenues for further development of the literature.  
 
2. Measures 
In this section, we develop a set of new measures for the relatedness between countries 
(or regions) and products. We start by summarizing the formalization of the density 
measure that is currently the most used measure. We then move on to propose new 
measures based on two of our proposals that we introduced above: the inclusion of the 
absence loss of comparative advantage, or, in other words, mutually exclusive 
specializations,  in the analysis, and the idea of a “country space”.  
 
2.1. The density measure 
The most commonly used measure for a country’s opportunities for diversification is 
referred to as density. This measure is based on the idea that a country’s current 
specialization structure (partly) determines which products are likely targets for 
developing new comparative advantages (diversification). Diversification itself is 
measured through the notion of comparative advantage, denoted by the matrix X, with 
elements  
xij = 1 if 
𝐸𝑖𝑗
𝐸𝑗
⁄
𝐸𝑖𝐸
⁄
≥1 and xij = 0 otherwise,  
where 𝐸𝑖𝑗 denotes the value of exports of product i by country j, and the absence of a 
subscript indicates summation over the relevant dimension. The matrix X has dimensions 
m x n, where m is the number of products, and n is the number of countries. Typically,𝑚≫
𝑛. We assume that each country exports at least one product, and each product is exported 
by at least one country (this ensures that all elements of X are well-defined). A given X 
matrix contains a total of  𝑟= ∑
∑
𝑥𝑖𝑗
∀𝑗∈{1,2,..𝑛}
∀𝑖∈{1,2,..𝑚}
 revealed comparative advantages. 
The elements of X are measures of so-called Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) of 
the column-country in the row-product. The densit...
--
12698:... 
are in the current specialization portfolio of a given country. The elements 𝑑𝑖𝑗 of matrix D 
are the density of product i for country j (D has dimensions 𝑚× 𝑛, like X), and they reflect 
the sum of the cells of the product j row of 𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛 for which i has a comparative advantage, 
relative to the sum of all elements in the jth row of 𝐶𝑚𝑖𝑛. Thus, a hypothetical country 
without any comparative advantages (a country that does not export) would have 𝑑𝑖𝑗= 0 
for all products j, and a hypothetical country that has comparative advantage in all 
products would have 𝑑𝑖𝑗= 1 for all products j.1  
2.2. Mutually exclusive RCA: extending density 
The density indicator exploits information about the current (co-)specializations of a 
country, i.e., which of the entries in the country’s column of the X matrix are 1. We propose 
that there is also valuable information in the patterns in which specializations coincide 
with absence of specializations, i.e., which of the entries in the country’s column of the X 
matrix are 0. The reason for this is that a country cannot be specialized in all products at 
the same time, by construction of the RCA indicator.2 
Thus, if we look at the development pattern of a country, the idea that it will gain 
specializations as it acquires new capabilities implies also a loss of existing specializations 
at some point of time. This does not necessarily mean that capabilities are lost, it results 
 
1 Note that the computation underlying the density measure is somewhat arbitrary. For exam...
--
14788:...duct j, and ceteris paribus, 
(𝐸𝑖𝑗
𝐸𝑗
⁄ ) (𝐸𝑖𝐸
⁄ )
⁄
 (the non-binary value of RCA) of country i will fall, possibly even below 1, so that the binary 
RCA also changes. 

5 
 
from the fact that scarce resources may better be used to exploit other capabilities (in line 
with basic trade theory). The metaphor of moving through product space implies means 
that, through competition in global markets, a country can re-position itself into new 
neighborhoods where some specializations are common and others are (largely) absent.  
The global pattern of how certain specializations coincide with the absence of some 
others, or, in other words, that specializations can be mutually exclusive, can reveal 
valuable information on a different aspect of relatedness. An observation that two specific 
specializations do not coincide very often may indicate low relatedness, and vice versa. 
However, the information indicated by the frequent coincidence of one specialization with 
the absence of another is of a different nature. The latter is an indication of anti-
relatedness, thus some sort of competition in specialization.  
In order to exploit the potential information in the empirically-observed patterns of such 
mutual-exclusivity between specializations, we define a complementary conditional 
probability measure  
𝐵= 𝑈−1𝑍𝑋𝑇, 
where Z = O – X is a matrix of “anti-RCA”, in which the elements are 𝑧𝑖𝑗= 1 if 𝑥𝑖𝑗= 0 and 
𝑧𝑖𝑗= 0 if 𝑥𝑖𝑗= 1, and U is the matrix with the row-sums of Z on the main diagonal. Then 
also the diagonal elements of U 𝑢𝑖𝑖= 𝑛−𝑠𝑖𝑖 are a kind of “anti-ubiquity”...
--
49707:...graph contains fractions of observations at indicate significance level; each graph 
contains results for RCA gains, left of the vertical line, and loss of RCA, right of vertical 
line) 

21 
 
 
Figure 6. Combined space indicators for separate Lall groups (vertical axis of each 
graph contains fractions of observations at indicate significance level; each graph 
contains results for RCA gains, left of the vertical line, and loss of RCA, right of vertical 
line) 

22 
 
3.6. Summary of results 
In terms of theoretical contributions, our four proposals had two main messages. The first 
is that absence or loss of comparative advantage should be considered as a useful source 
of information. The second is the idea of country space, or a combined product and 
country space. The empirical analysis reported on above suggests that these ideas 
contribute relatively most when we look either at individual products or individual 
countries. When analyzing a pooled country and products sample, all measures that we 
analyzed performed extremely well, and hence the theoretical proposals do not add much 
to an already high predictive power. 
In terms of the absence of comparative advantage, the indicators D, 𝐷∗ and 𝐷𝑇𝑜𝑡 do not 
include this, while all other indicators include this type of information. Does this lead to 
any differences in performance? This greatly depends on the specific context in which the 
indicators are used. In product space, i.e., indicator D and the other non-starred or non-
Tot indicators, D does better in predicting gains or losses of RCA per country, but it does 
slightly worse for predicting gains or losses of RCA per product.  
In terms of predicting losses of comparative advantage, which in our view, needs to be a 
more integral part of the literature, the results are very clear: it is much harder to predict 
loss of comparative advantage than to predict gains. This holds for all indicators across 
the board.  
In terms of our second theoretical proposal, product space, in our analysis the country 
space indicators generally come out with stronger predictions than the product space 
indicators, suggesting that country space is a very relevant notion. Developing the country 
space idea further, both theoretically and empirically, could therefore be a useful avenue 
for the literature.  
 
4. Summary and conclusions 
The product space literature provides an interesting and fruitful perspective on the old 
questions of how countries can grow and develop to increase the living standards of their 
inhabitants in a quantitative and qualitative way. In this paper, we proposed a number of 
additions to this idea, which add a number of new intuitions and according indicators to 
the already existing discourse in this literature. Our empirical tests, although performed 
on a specific dataset covering a short time period, show that these proposals have 
empirical relevance.  
In particular, we argued that the absence and loss of specializations should become a part 
of the literature, just as the presence and gain of specializations already is. This suggestion 
stems from the fundamental premises of trade theory (i.e., that countries deploy their 
resources to activities in which they have comparative advantage), and we believe that 
application of this idea in the product space literature would make it possible to integrate 
this field better with trade theory. This could have important advantages for how the 
product space idea develops further in the field of economic theory at large.  

23 
 
We also ...
--
57417:...ersity Press, pp. 298-
318. 
Verspagen, B., 1991, A New Empirical Approach to Catching Up or Falling Behind, 
Structural Change and Economic Dynamics, vol 2, pp. 359-380. 
Von Tunzelmann, N., 1995, Technology and Industrial Progress. The Foundations of 
Economic Growth, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. 
 
 

25 
 
Appendix 1. RCA changes 
In order to assess the magnitude of changes in RCA (either gains or losses), we created a 
binary measure of RCA, as follows: 
𝜒𝑖𝑗=
𝐸𝑖𝑗
𝐸𝑗
⁄
𝐸𝑖𝐸
⁄ and 𝜌𝑖𝑗=
𝜒𝑖𝑗−1
𝜒𝑖𝑗+1 
where, as in the main text, 𝐸𝑖𝑗 denotes the value of exports of product i by country j, and 
the absence of a subscript indicates summation over the relevant dimension. Obviously, 
𝜒𝑖𝑗 is a continuous (on the interval [0, ∞⟩) rather than a binary measure. The 
transformation of 𝜒𝑖𝑗 to 𝜌𝑖𝑗 makes the measure symmetric, in the interval [−1, 1]. Thus, 
the absolute value of the largest possible change of 𝜌𝑖𝑗 from one period to another is 2.  
For all periods as specified in the main text, we first created the changes of binary RCA, 
either gains (from 0 to 1), or losses (from 1 to 0). For each of the two categories of gains 
and losses, we then estimated the kernel density (i.e., estimated probabili...
--
59641:...test results 
 
In this appendix we document bootstrapping test results for individual period lengths. 
The main text explains the setup and execution of the tests, and documents the results for 
the pooled period lengths, i.e., all period lengths from 1 period to 6 periods. The tables in 
this appendix show that there are some differences between the subsets according to 
period length, and between those subsets and the pooled set. The estimates for individual 
period lengths indicate that predictive power generally gets higher when the length of the 
interval increases. However, the general conclusions are common and well represented 
in the pooled set. 
As in the main text, values that are underlined are the maximum in their category (gain – 
products; losses – products; gains – countries; losses – countries), and values that are 
printed in bold are the maximum in their subcategory (gain – products; losses – products; 
gains – countries; losses – countries and product space; country space; combined space). 
Whenever underlining or bold face changes relative to Table 3 in the main text, the values 
in the appendix tables below are printed in red. 
 
 

28 
 
Table A1. Summary of test resu...
