warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://run.unl.pt/bitstreams/e0c3b563-f946-4b3a-9a9b-5c2583cfd12a/download
Type: PDF
Pattern: consecutive|backward condition|forward condition|we say that a country|new product|density (16 matches in 93819 chars)

--- Content ---

7715:...n is not 
only infrequent, but a risky development endeavor. 
So, when should we expect unrelated diversification to take place? 
This paper contributes to the growing understanding of unrelated diversification by 
empirically studying when it happens. We use two datasets that summarize product exports to 
analyze the relatedness of diversification events at different levels of development—proxied 
by economic complexity. To answer this question, we introduce a normalization of the 
relatedness density metric (Hidalgo et al., 2007) that allows us to compare the relative 
relatedness of diversification events for countries at different levels of development. We find 
that unrelated diversification events grow together with a country’s development, until a 
relatively high level of complexity.  
We explain this change in the frequency of unrelated diversification by looking at the 
relationship between complexity and relatedness. At low levels of complexity, locations are 
related to low comple...
--
19902:...#
!#"#
&
(1) 
where $!" is a matrix summarizing the exports of country + in product ,, and !!" is a matrix 
of specialization or Revealed Comparative Advantages.  
We call the set of products present in a country with an RCA greater one (!!" ≥1) as that 
countries’ product basket. Conversely, products with RCA below a one (!!" < 1) represent 
countries’ option set (/!), i.e., they are not present yet in a country product basket but could 
be, thus, present opportunities of development. 

 
 
8 
We say that a country (+) enters a new product (,), between years 0 and 0′, when there is 
an increase in RCA from !!" < 1 in year y to !!" ≥1  in year 0#. However, since RCA time 
series can have a significant amount of noise (e.g., due to exchange rate and commodity price 
fluctuations), we consider two additional conditions. First, we consider a backward condition 
requiring a location to have !!" < 1 for activity , for the Δ years preceding y, and a forward 
condition requiring that a location c maintains !!" ≥1 for activity , during Δ years. In the 
main manuscript we will consider a standard Δ = 4, in Appendix B we show the robustness of 
our findings for variations of this parameter and RCA thresholds. These conditions help reduce 
the number of false-positive observations. We only consider entry events as those events that 
satisfy these conditions....
--
22006:...value equation whose solution is a location's ECI: 
ECI! = 8
9!"
7"7!
"
8 9!"ECI!
!
(3) 
ECI offers a measure of the combination of factors that drive the specialization pattern of a 
location, whereas PCI measure the combination of factors required by a product or industry 
(Hidalgo, 2021). Like ECI, PCI can be computed by solving the following eigenvalue equation: 
PCI! = 8 9!"
7"7!
!
8 9!"PCI!
"
(4) 

 
 
9 
Results and Discussion 
Principle of Relatedness  
We estimate relatedness using the density approach introduced by Hidalgo et al. (2007). We 
start by estimating the proximity between a pair of products. To that end, we define 9!", a 
matrix that is equal to one if a location has RCA in a product (!!" ≥1), and zero otherwise. 
The number of activities present in a country, or its diversity, can be computed from 9!", as 
9! = ∑9!"
"
. Conversely, the ubiquity of a product is equal to the number of countries where 
the product is present with !!" ≥1 (9" = ∑9!"
!
). The proximity between...
--
23707:...ations, et cetera (Bahar, Rosenow, 
Stein, & Wagner, 2019; Balland & Boschma, 2021; Delgado, Porter, & Stern, 2015; Diodato, 
Neffke, & O’Clery, 2018; Farinha, Balland, Morrison, & Boschma, 2019; Hidalgo, 2021; Jara-
Figueroa, Jun, Glaeser, & Hidalgo, 2018). 
We can estimate the relatedness between products and regions by dividing the proximities 
from a product to all of the products present in a country’s basket by the sum of the proximities 
from that product to all products. The relatedness density, G!", of product , in country + is 
defined as: 
ω%$ =
∑
9!"#?""#
"#
∑
?""#
"#
(6) 
Figure 1 shows the probability that a country enters a product as a function of their 
relatedness. While this figure verifies the basic finding of the principle of relatedness (Hidalgo 
et al., 2018), it also shows that relatedness (G!") cannot be readily used for cross-country 
comparison. More complex economies tend to have higher relatedness values across all 

 
 
10 
activities; so high-relatedness entry e...
--
24835:...ents are skewed towards those 
of low complexity economies (red segments). Nevertheless, a relatedness value of 0.3 may be 
considered low for a high complexity economy (e.g., an unrelated entry event) and high for a 
low complexity economy (related entry event). This motivates the introduction of a metric of 
relative relatedness (GJ!") that makes diversification events comparable across countries.  
  
Figure 1 – Probability of entering a new activity in two years as a function of relatedness density, estimated for 
the SITC (left) and HS92 (right) international trade product classifications. More details on the procedure for the 
identification of new products can be found in Appendix A. 
Relative Relatedness 
Unlike relatedness (G!"), which is an absolute measure, relative relatedness (GJ!") is a measure 
that compares the relatedness of a countries' new activities with the average relatedness of the 
activities in a countries' option set1 (activities with !!" < 1). The relative relatedness of 
country + in product ,, in year 0 is computed as a simple z-transform: 
GJ!" =
G!" −∑
G!"#
L&!
M
"#
N'!"#
(7) 
 
1 Alternatively, we could have made the mea...
--
26334:...f opportunities of country +, and N'!"# is the standard deviation 
of the relatedness of the products (,′) in /!. Relative relatedness (GJ!") is comparable across 
countries because it indicates whether a location enters a product that was more or less related 
than the average product in its option set. Note that we are omitting the year index from all the 
formulas, but these quantities are measured independently on a year-by-year basis. 
Figure 2 shows the probability that a country enters a new product as a function of the 
relative relatedness. While results are consistent with the principle of relatedness, in that 
countries are more successful in entering activities for which they have relatively higher 
relatedness, relative relatedness overcomes the limitations shown in Figure 1. In particular, we 
now see that for the entire range of relative relatedness's we have a more evenly distributed 
representation of countries with different levels of complexity. This helps mitigate the bias 
introduced by an unnormalized metric of relatedness.  
 
Figure 2 – Probability of entering a new activity in two years as a function of the relative relatedness density, 
estimated for the SITC (left) and HS92 (right) international trade product classifications. 
Unrelated Diversification and Economic Complexity 
Equipped with our normalized measure of relatedness, we now explore the timing when 
locations enter relatively more unrelated activities. To that end, we define Ω!,)→)+,  as the 
average relative relatedness GJ!" of the products entered by country + between years 0 and 0 +
2. 

 
 
12 
 
Figure 3 – Average deviation in the relatedness of new activiti...
--
28934:...ITC-4 (left) and HS92 (right) datasets. Solid lines show the best third-order 
polynomial fit. 
Figure 4 extends the analysis of Figure 3 but uses GDP per capita as a metric of 
development (for the datasets for which this data was available). Although a similar behavior 
is captured, the effect is not as pronounced as with the Economic Complexity Index.  
Next, we explore the relationship between relative relatedness and development using a 
model that regresses the relative relatedness of the new products developed as function of linear 

 
 
13 
and quadratic terms for a Human Capital Index, ECI, and GDP per capita; while controlling 
for year fixed effects. Formally, the models take the form: 
Ω!,)→)+)#  = S- × ECI!) + S, × ECI!)
, + S. × UVWXYZ[!)\ + S/ × UVW,XYZ[!)\
+S0 × UVWXHC%1\ + S2 × UVW,XHC!)\ + ^) + _!)
(8) 
where the dependent variable Ω!,)→)+)# represents the average relative relatedness of the newly 
products developed by country c between year 0 and 0′. The remaining variables in...
--
36872:...trivial pattern. If countries would enter activities at random, they would 
all cluster around (0,0) (because of the definitions of GJ!" and PCI
d !"). If countries would enter 
the most related products only (blue dots simulation), they would cluster on the top of the chart. 
In this simulation, we estimate the relative relatedness and relative complexity of products of 
each country if they would have entered only in the most related products. For this purpose, we 
consider the same number of new products as observed in the real datasets. 
Stages of Economic Diversification 
To explain the patterns identified above, we study the correlation between the relative 
relatedness and relative complexity of a location's option set. This is defined using the Pearson 
correlation coefficient as:  
g! = +VhhXPCI
d "!, GJ"!\ =
∑
XPCI
d "! −〈PCI
d "!〉\XGJ"! −〈GJ"!〉\
&!,*
∑
XPCI
d "! −〈PCI
d "!〉\
,XGJ"! −〈GJ"!〉\
,
&!,*
(10) 
In this equation, a negative correlation (g! < 0) implies that a location is relate...
--
[4 more matches not shown]
