warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.05352
Type: PDF
Pattern: new product|new export|entr(y|ies) (is|are) defin|0\.25|0\.5|below|remain|sustain|during|period|window|years (188 matches in 83938 chars)

--- Content ---

1116:..., Norway 
 
* Correspondence to: flaviopp@mit.edu, and hidalgo@mit.edu 
† Current Address: The MIT Media Lab, 75 Amherst Street, Cambridge, MA 02139 
 
 
Abstract 
Countries tend to diversify their exports by entering products that are related to their 
current exports. Yet this average behavior is not representative of every 
diversification path. In this paper, we introduce a method to identify periods when 
countries enter unrelated products. We analyze the economic diversification paths of 
93 countries between 1965 and 2014 and find that countries enter unrelated products 
in only about 7.2% of all observations. We find that countries enter more unrelated 
products when they are at an intermediate level of economic development, and when 
they have higher levels of human capital. Finally, we...
--
1986:...ster than those entering only related products. The 
data shows that countries that enter more unrelated activities experience a small but 
significant increase in future economic growth, compared to countries with a similar 
level of income, human capital, capital stock per worker, and economic complexity.  
 
Keywords: relatedness, product space, unrelated diversification, economic 
complexity, new export products, economic growth 
 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma and Hidalgo (2018) 
 
 
2 
Introduction 
A well-established fact in the literature on international and regional economic 
development is that countries (Hidalgo, Klinger, Barabási, & Hausmann, 2007), 
regions (Coniglio, Lagravinese, Vurchio, & Armenise, 2018; Gao et al., 2017; Neffke, 
Henning, & Boschma, 2011; Zhu, He, & Zhou, ...
--
3753:...e introduce a method to identify when countries enter unrelated 
activities and use it to identify the countries that do so more frequently. Finally, we 
study the macroeconomic consequences of such deviations by studying whether 
countries that entered more unrelated activities grew faster.  
But how common it is for a country to enter an unrelated activity? In a dataset 
containing 93 countries during the period 1965-2014, we find that in 92.8% of the 
observed cases countries enter the export of products that are more related than the 
average product in their option set. This means that in only 7.2% of the cases 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma and Hidalgo (2018) 
 
 
3 
countries deviate from the principle of relatedness and enter products that are on 
average, less related than their option se...
--
5414:...ntry is linked with the type of related activity 
development. 
Finally, we ask whether countries entering more unrelated activities grow faster, after 
controlling for their initial level of GDP per capita, economic complexity, and human 
capital. We find that countries entering more unrelated activities experience a small 
but significant increase in their subsequent growth performance of about 0.5% per 
annum. In other words, our findings show that deviations from the principle of 
relatedness occur especially in countries at an intermediate stage of development, and 
that countries that succeed in developing unrelated activities experience a small but 
significant boost in economic growth. 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma and Hidalgo (2018) 
 
 
4 
Literature Review 
Knowledge prod...
--
12846:...orker, and human capital. 
Materials and Methods 
Data 
We use international trade data from the MIT’s Observatory of Economic 
Complexity (atlas.media.mit.edu). We use the SITC-4 rev 2 product classification, 
since it provides the longest time series: 1962 to 2014. This dataset combines exports 
data from 1962 to 2000, compiled by Feenstra et al. (2005), and data from the U.N. 
Comtrade for the period between 2001 and 2014. This data contains detailed trade 
information for 225 countries and 1,004 distinct products.  
We reduce noise coming from underreporting and from variations in the size of the 
economies of countries and products by using several filters. First, we filter out all 
city-sized national economies, by discarding all countries with a population of fewer 
than 1.2 million citizens and a total trade below USD 1 billion in 2008. Moreover, 
economies for which no reliable data was available—such as Iraq (IRQ), Chad 
(TCD), Macau (MAC) and Afghanistan (AFG)—were discarded. Finally, we employ 
several time-dependent filters. All yearly trade flows valued at less than 5,000 USD 
were discarded. Also, we discarded all products whose exports value is equal to zero 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma ...
--
14333:... countries and products 
that do not have a significant relevance in the global trade and that would, otherwise, 
introduce noise to the analysis. After applying these filters, our final sample consists 
of 117 countries, representing 97.45% of global GDP and 86.67% of global trade in 
2008. We use 2008 as a point of reference since this is the last year for which we can 
estimate regressions for new products (from 2008 to 2010) and validate them during 
the following four years (from 2010 to 2014).  
We use GDP, population and human capital from the Penn World Tables (PWT 9.0). 
The GDP data comes from real GDP National Accounts, measuring GDP in constant 
USD in 2005 (Feenstra, Inklaar, & Timmer, 2015). To measure changes in a country’s 
productive structure—which require long time series data—we restrict our analysis to 
a subset of 93 countries for which data is available during the entire interval of 
analysis, from 1965 until 2010 (see Appendix A). These countries correspond to 
86.73% of global GDP and 73.31% of global trade in 2010. 
 
The Economic Complexity Index 
The Economic Complexity Index (ECI) is a measure of the knowledge intensity of 
economies and products that can be computed from trade data. Here, we compute the 
Economic Complexity Index (ECI) and the P...
--
16434:...ersity of a country as the number of 
products that it exports (5" = ∑2"#
#
)  with revealed comparative advantage, and the 
ubiquity of a product as the number of countries that export such product with 
revealed comparative advantage (5# = ∑2"#
"
). 
Moreover, we define the product basket of a country (c) at year (y) as all products for 
which that country holds RCA greater or equal to one. The remaining products, which 
have RCA lower than 1, comprise the option set of a country (c) at year (y). This 
option set is denoted by O"7. 
Using the above definitions, the knowledge intensity of a country (ECI) is computed 
as the average knowledge intensity of the products it exports (i.e. the average PCI of 
its exports). Conversely, we compute the knowledge intensity of a product (PCI) as 
the aver...
--
18717:...ts it does not export. The resulting quantity is 
commonly referred to as the density, J"#, of product p in country c and computed as: 
 
J"# =
∑
2"#+
#+
B##+
∑
B##+
#+
                      
(6) 
 
Higher density products are products that are more related/similar to the export 
capacities of a country, whereas lower density products correspond to 
unrelated/farther away products. 
 
Identifying New Products 
Here we propose a new methodology to quantify the relative level of relatedness 
and complexity of newly developed products by a country, which requires identifying 
when a country enters a new product. To that end, we say that a country (c) enters a 
new product (p), between years y and y’, when it is able to jump from RCA lower 
than 1.0 at year y to RCA above or equal to 1.0 at year y’.  
However, since the RCA depends on export data, the temporal patterns tend to be 
very noisy. As a result, this methodology, alone, is prone to false-positives (e.g., 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma and Hidalgo (2018) 
 
 
12 
temporal spikes in the exports of a country that do not repeat). To correct for false-
positives, we implement two additional conditions: First, we consider a backward 
condition that requires that a country c had an RCA lower than 1.0 over product p for 
four consecutive years before y; Secondly, a forward condition requires that a country 
c is able to maintain a RCA above or equal to 1.00 over product p during the 
following 4 years after y’. We only consider as newly developed products those that 
verify both conditions.  
Results 
Following the relatedness literature (Boschma, 2017; Hidalgo et al., 2017), we test 
firstly if, on average, countries are more likely to diversify towards products that are 
related to their current exports. Figure 1a shows a visualization of the product space 
(the network connecting similar pr...
--
20842:... current exports. 
 Figures 1b and 1c reproduce the basic finding of the relatedness literature. They 
show that the probability that a country will develop RCA in a product is larger for 
more related products. Figure 1b estimates relatedness using the density measure 
described in equation 5. Density estimates the relatedness between all of the products 
exported by a country and each potential new export product. Figure 1c estimates 
relatedness using the proximity of each potential product to the closest exported 
product. Both methods show that countries are — on average — more likely to start 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma and Hidalgo (2018) 
 
 
13 
exporting products that are related to their current exports. These results are robust to 
different threshold values of RCA from 0.5 to 1.5.  
 
 
Figure 1 – Product Space and the Principle of Relatedness. Panel a) shows the Product Space, 
highlighting, as an example, the products in which South Korea had RCA over 1 in 1987. The colors of 
the nodes correspond to the sectors described in the legend on the left. Panel b) shows the probability 
of developing a new export product over a four years period as a function of density. Panel c) shows 
the probability of developing a new export product over a four years period as a function of the 
proximity to the closest developed product. A new export product is considered to be developed if in a 
four-year period it undergoes a transition from !"# < 1 to !"# ≥1. 
 
Yet, both of these measures of relatedness cannot be readily used for comparisons 
across countries. Density estimates the distance between a product and all of the 
rela...
--
[163 more matches not shown]
