warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.01046
Type: PDF
Pattern: trajector|typolog|cluster(s|ing) of|classes|exit|abandon|retain|retention|persist|stop|leave|lose|decline|fade|transient (19 matches in 85738 chars)

--- Content ---

3991:...latter
(Kauffman, 2000; Monechi, Ruiz-Serrano, Tria, & Loreto, 2017).
In this paper we address the process of penetration of AI inside a given field of
research. We focus on neuroscience, which are part of such fields largely receiving AI,
according to Gargiulo et al. (2023). We choose especially this field as it has a particular
history which is closely intertwined with the AI one. Indeed neuroscience and AI
are continuously providing feed-backs to each other toward the comprehension of the
human brain and the artificial reproduction of some cognitive processes (Hassabis,
Kumaran, Summerfield, & Botvinick, 2017; Savage, 2019). This lead us to also assume
that neuroscience is not only a filed th...
--
10033:... and functional magnetic res-
onance imaging (fMRI), both of which led to important discoveries on the functional
biological mechanisms in the human brain that are induced by complex cognitive tasks
(Cooper & Shallice, 2010). This contributed to the rise of the connectionist paradigm
that is now dominant in brain sciences, even if some debates are persisting within
cognitive science about the representations of knowledge and the logical operations
to process them in interaction with the real world (Andler, 1990; McCarthy, 1981;
Perconti & Plebe, 2020)
In the recent big data era, a panel of AI tools enables the efficient processing of
large datasets composed of various kinds of biomedical data (elec...
--
24634:...r the value of one axis, the better the associated rank and the higher the
number of collected citations along this axis. The angle θ indicates the deviation of d
from the diagonal in this space, where the ranks are exactly the same in each corpus.
8

From this map we define the common interest area between P ∩AI and P ∩AI
(in grey) as the region close to the diagonal where the two rankings of the fields of
study inside it are almost the same and not significantly varying over time. This zone
is comprised between the two lines of respective equations rP∩AI = rP∩AI + τ (above
the diagonal) and rP∩AI = rP∩AI −τ (below the diagonal), with τ a parameter set as
10 in this paper.
The blue zone over th...
--
31208:..., v)|u ∈Qi, v ∈Qj}|.
Then we create a set of N alternative collaboration networks { ˜Gk} = {(S, ˜Ek)},
with k = {1, ..., N}, which are all based on the same set of scientists but have differ-
ent sets of edges obtained by perturbing the network with a uniform shuffling which
conserves the degree distribution of the scientists. By applying the same clustering of
scientists in Q groups for each network as for the real network G, we draw a set of
matrices {τk} corresponding to the share of edges between the Q groups within the
randomized networks { ˜Gk}. From this set we extract on the one hand the average
matrix τsim where one element is defined as τsim(Qi, Qj) =
1
N
P
k τk(Qi, Qj), and
on the other hand t...
--
37709:...s located with its respec-
tive ranks in each corpus during the considered time period, in references (Fig. 6A)
or citations (Fig. 6B). Lower the value of one axis, better the associated rank, and
then higher the number of collected citations along this axis. From these maps we
define the common interest area between P ∩AI and P ∩AI as the region close to
the diagonal where the two rankings of the fields of study are almost the same and
not significantly varying over time. These fields are colored in grey in these maps. The
fields that are more dispersed around the diagonal are represented with two different
colors, the blue ones having a better rank in P ∩AI than in P ∩AI and the purple
ones ha...
--
39305:... compare their respective citation weights within each corpus. Grey points correspond
to disciplines confined in the area between the two lines of respective equations rP∩AI = rP∩AI + τ
(above the diagonal) and rP∩AI = rP∩AI −τ (below the diagonal), with τ = 10, and with no
important variations of positions from one period to one another. The most persistent ones over the
5 represented decades, with a rank lower than 20, are mentioned in the upper left box of each figure
A and B. Finally, blue points are the most preferred disciplines of the P ∩AI corpus while purple
ones are those for the corpus P ∩AI. Abbreviations of the apparent disciplines are given in App. C.
14

the null angle θ = 0. Then we...
--
41713:...ineering, Radiology, Neuroimaging and Audiology & Speech-
Language pathology. A description of the evolution of the disciplinary landscape inside
this zone is detailed in App. B.
The special disciplinary ecosystem of the non-AI corpus P ∩AI, in blue in the
rankings maps of Fig. 6, is also centered around biomedical fields of study that tend
to be close to the disciplines that characterize the whole neuroscience as mentioned
above. In particular, as shown in Fig. 7, the mean angles and the standard deviations
of the disciplines in the associated zone are asserting a global concentration of them
toward the common interest area, which includes on one hand the most influential
fields of research (re...
--
44118:... Engineering and
Mathematics for Computational Biology, the last one exhibiting especially a spectac-
ular increase of its own rank between 1990 and 2019 (see Figs. 6A and B1). Moreover,
these special disciplines that cite most the corpus P ∩AI in Fig. 6B are as dispersed
as the most cited ones by this corpus in Fig. 6A, and remain over time less close to
the common interest area than the disciplines preferring the other corpus P ∩AI (see
the corresponding annual evolution of the average angle ⟨θ⟩, colored in purple in the
impact side of Fig. 7). All these results thus show that AI research in neuroscience is
situated in a particular disciplinary environment that is not shared by the core of the...
--
53259:...it between 1970 and 2019. Each point
represents one journal in the horizontal aAI space, colored by the standard deviation of the fAI
scores of their associated authors. The maximum average value of fAI is situated around 0,4.
papers (included in the quartile Q) under two aspects, namely (1) their disciplinary
background and (2) their disciplinary trajectory in academia.
We define the disciplinary background of one author as the set of unique disci-
plines corresponding to the journals in which he/she has published in his/her first
year of academic life, namely the year of his/her very first publication(s). For exam-
ple, a fictitious author publishing his/her three first papers in the same year y0 i...
--
54835:...ed in biomedical research around neuroscience,
as well as in Multidisciplinary Sciences which is represented by 91 international jour-
nals with a broad topical diversity. We recognize also the main fields of research that
are shaping the common interest area of the disciplinary ecosystems of the two sep-
arated AI and non-AI corpora (see the most persistent disciplines in references and
citations in Fig. 6). These two profiles best represent the disciplinary spectrum of neu-
roscience itself. We notice in addition the spectacular increase of the Neurosciences
curve in the two plots until the 1970s (after having emerged in 1957 for Q and in 1962
for Q0), followed by a quasi-linear progression until...
--
56432:...e consider their respective disciplinary profile as the disciplines
corresponding to the journals in which they publish throughout their scientific life –
that would not be ended for the youngest still publishing in 2019. We therefore draw
from these two parameters – disciplinary background and career-related disciplines
– the typical disciplinary trajectories in each quartile, which are shown in Fig. 12.
Since the backgrounds are built from the publications at a given year, the authors
who began their career in 2019 would have a disciplinary profile corresponding to it.
For avoiding an over-representation of some confined disciplinary trajectories due to
these newcomers, we therefore consider only the authors who began at the latest in
2018. For the sake of clarity we select only the most significant trajectories.
As a confirmation of the disciplinary background shown in Fig. 11, Fig. 12 shows
that the studied authors in Q and Q0 are involved in a similar disciplinary landscape
centered around Ophthalmology, Clinical Neurology and general Neurosciences, while
Q1 and Q2 are more confined into Computer Science and Engineering. In particular, by
considerin...
--
59759:...ar t is the number of authors who have published
their first articles inside d during their very first year of academic career, since the year of first
appearance of d. Only the top 10 native specialties in 2019 are shown in Q, Q0 and Q1, and the top
6 for Q2 because of the insignificance of the following ones.
22

Fig. 12 Significant disciplinary trajectories of the authors belonging in each quartile. On each plot
lie on the left the most significant disciplinary backgrounds, and on the right lie the career-related
disciplines up to 2019.
23

community is taking root in the global neuroscience landscape, the more recent pro-
files in neuroscience becoming insiders in this new technological specialty...
--
61421:...les Q and {Q0, Q1, Q2}, is lower than the average one com-
puted from several random distributions of all the edges between the authors in TCN.
This fact thus shows that the AI practitioners within neuroscience and the other neu-
roscientists maintain few collaborations as TCN grows over time. Second this situation
worsens over time, with a steady decline until the 1990s followed by a steeper one
toward 2015. Although this tendency has reversed since 2015, these results indicates
that the neuroscientists making AI, ie. in Qi and not in Q, are shaping an almost inde-
pendent community inside neuroscience by widening progressively a gap with other
neuroscientists belonging to the set Q. Furthermore, concerning especially the authors
in Q0, who have similar disciplinary backgrounds and trajectories as the authors in
Q (see Figs. 11 and 12), the results advanced above also suggest that the scientists in
Q0 became progressively outsiders from the subset Q in the history of neuroscience
by moving closer to AI – even if the scientists in Q0 have few AI-related publications.
This social divide is confirmed with Fig. 13B, which represents the panorama of
the links shared between the different quartiles in ACN (see also Section 3.3.3). This
diagram represents a stabilized situation observed since the end of the 1990s (see
Fig. D3 in App. D), where t...
--
63932:...se between Q2 and Q0. The
scientists in Q1 thus appears to be the most interdisciplinary by assuring the bridge
between these differentiated profiles inside AI community. These other outsiders in
neuroscience are especially driving the diffusion of AI in neuroscience from computa-
tion to medical and clinical applications, given their disciplinary trajectories shown in
Fig. 12.
Fig. 13 A: Temporal z-score applied to the edges in TCN between the scientists in Q and those
in the other Qi, here aggregated together under the notation Qi. B: Z-score matrix of the edges
between each quartile in the time-aggregated collaboration network ACN. The values are normalized
with the absolute maximum one in the mat...
--
67091:...uroscience from the other neuroscience spe-
cialists, we have shown that the first tend to not maintain links with the second in the
temporal co-authorship network including the main collaborations in the field since
1970. With the previous results we concluded that AI researchers are outsiders in
neuroscience. We especially have distinguished two classes in this group of scientists,
namely a first wave of outsiders including authors who are trained in the main dis-
ciplines that are shaping the neuroscience field since the 1940s and who have a low
AI activity, and a smallest second wave which emerged around the 1980s and that is
including authors who are trained in other disciplines that are not r...
