warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00622
Type: PDF
Pattern: trajector|typolog|cluster(s|ing) of|classes|exit|abandon|retain|retention|persist|stop|leave|lose|decline|fade|transient|science|scientific|alluvial (81 matches in 41682 chars)

--- Content ---

159:Mapping change in higher-order networks
with multilevel and overlapping communities
Anton Holmgren
,1, ∗Daniel Edler
,1, 2 and Martin Rosvall
1, †
1Integrated Science Lab,
Department of Physics,
Ume˚a University,
SE-901 87 Ume˚a,
Sweden
2Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre,
Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences,
University of Gothenburg,
SE-405 30 Gothenburg,
Sweden
(Dated: March 2, 2023)
New network models of complex systems use layers, state nodes, or hyperedges to cap-
ture higher-order interactions and dynamics.
Simplifying how the higher-order net-
works change over time or depending on the network model would be easy with alluvial
diagrams, which visualize community splits and merges between networks. However,
alluvial diagrams were developed for networks with regular nodes assigned to non-
overlapping ﬂat communities.
How should they be deﬁned for nodes in layers, state
nodes, or hyperedges? How can they depict multilevel, overlapping communities? Here
we generalize alluvial diagrams to map change in higher-order networks and provide an
interactive tool for anyone to generate alluvial diagrams. We use the alluvial generator
to illustrate the eﬀect of modeling network ﬂows with memory in a citation network,
distinguishing multidisciplinary from ﬁeld-speciﬁc journals.
INTRODUCTION
Complex systems are inherently dynamic. Their com-
ponents inﬂuence each other through various informa-
tional and physical processes, changing interaction pat-
terns over time. Res...
--
1856:...rchers represent these interactions
with networks1,2,3,4,5,6,7 and simplify their organization
with community-detection algorithms8,9,10,11,12. For ex-
ample, community-detection algorithms that model the
various processes as ﬂows on networks assign nodes to
possibly nested modules of typically densely connected
nodes, among which the network ﬂows persist relatively
long8.
Identifying modules in multiple networks with
shared nodes enables exploring organizational changes
when the systems they represent change over time or be-
tween states: Modules merge and split when groups in
students’ social networks form and dissolve during school
days, or new research ﬁelds emerge when old ﬁelds fuse
or break and move apart.
Various summary statistics
can quantify these structural changes13,14,15, but they
destroy essential information about how the networks
change.
Alluvial diagrams with modules represented as stacks
of blocks joined by stream ﬁelds were introduced to re-
veal network organizational changes by depicting merg-
∗Corresponding author; anton.holmgren@umu.se
† martin.rosvall@umu.se
ing and splitting modules16. Researchers have success-
fully used them to map shifting regional tendencies in
urban networks17, study dynamics of hot topics in re-
search ﬁelds18,19, track changing bitcoin user activity20,
and explore evolving media channel preferences across
crisis phases21.
Generating alluvial diagrams requires
dedicated software to remove tedious manual work. How-
ever, current applications to generate alluvial diagrams
work only for standard networks partitioned into mod-
ules.
Today researchers use temporal, multilayer, and mem-
ory networks to capture interactions in complex sys-
tems with higher accuracy22,23,24,25,26,27 and multilevel
modular solutions to reveal more regularities in their
organization28,29. Multilayer networks can represent net-
works over time with links in time-windowed layers.
Memory networks can represent higher-order network
ﬂow models where the transition rates depend on the
current node and previously visited nodes. Both repre-
sentations enable overlapping modules. Mapping change
in these rich network representations requires generaliz-
ing alluvial diagrams and their generators to higher-order
networks with multilevel and overlapping modular solu-
tions.
Here we introduce alluvial diagrams for multilayer and
memory networks with multilevel and overlapping mod-
ular solutions. We demonstrate a new alluvial generator
for higher-order networks available for anyone to use at
https://www.mapequation.org/alluvial30, and illustrate
arXiv:2303.00622v1  [physics.soc-ph]  1 Mar 2023

2
a Modular network
b Two-level solution
c Alluvial diagram
d Multilevel solution
e Multilevel network
Level
1
2
3
2
1
FIG. 1 Schematic alluvial diagram of a multilevel network structure. a) A weighted network with modular structure, organized
into a two-level solution in b). c) A...
--
[66 more matches not shown]
