warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://www.ibot.cas.cz/personal/pysek/pdf/naturalization_and_invasion_%20of_alien_plants.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: Casual alien|Naturalized plants|rely on repeated introductions|residence time|failed (6 matches in 61756 chars)

--- Content ---

3028:...usually requires that the alien
taxon overcomes a different category of barriers.
We propose that the term ‘invasive’ should be
used without any inference to environmental or
economic impact. Terms like ‘pests’ and ‘weeds’
are suitable labels for the 50–80% of invaders
that have harmful effects. About 10% of invas-
ive plants that change the character, condition,
form, or nature of ecosystems over substantial
areas may be termed ‘transformers’.
Key words. aliens, barriers, biological invasions,
casual alien plants, invaders, naturalized species,
pests, plant introduction, transformers, weeds.
INTRODUCTION
The expanding ﬁeld of invasion ecology has
seen a proliferation of terms to describe vari-
ous concepts. There has also been considerable
confusion and misuse of existing terminology.
Invasion ecology has perhaps suffered more
than most scientiﬁc disciplines since the notion
of ‘invasion’ frequently evokes anthropocentric
concepts (aggression, assault, attack, encroach-
ment, incursion, infringem...
--
18650:... by Holub & Jirásek
(1967) who wrote about ‘Grad ihrer Naturaliza-
tion’ (degree of naturalization) and deﬁned the
naturalization of human-accompanying plants
(‘Naturalization der Anthropophyten’) as ‘eine
bis zur Einbürgerung gehende Anpassung der im
Gebiete ursprünglich fremden Pﬂanzen’ (i.e. a
process of adaptation of alien plants that can
lead to their incorporation into native vegeta-
tion). They explicitly mention particular degrees
of naturalization, from the stage of ‘ephem-
erophytes’ (casual alien plants; see Table 1),
to temporarily established aliens, to those
that are permanently present in either natural
or human-modiﬁed habitats. Holub & Jirásek
(1967) proposed special terms for plants intro-
duced intentionally (‘Akklimatization’) or unin-
tentionally (‘Xenonaturalization’).
It may be argued that the bewildering array
of concepts and terms used to describe non-
native plants in Europe is due to the very long
history of human habitation of the region,
which has resulted in many taxa...
--
21656:... australis). Several authors have attempted
to deﬁne the degree to which an alien taxon is
naturalized. For example, in Flora Europaea

98
D. M. Richardson et al.
© 2000 Blackwell Science Ltd, Diversity and Distributions, 6, 93–107
Table 1 Recommended terminology in plant invasion ecology
Alien plants1
Plant taxa in a given area whose presence there is due to intentional or accidental introduction as a result of human activity (synonyms: 
exotic plants, non-native plants; nonindigenous plants).
Casual alien plants
Alien plants that may ﬂourish and even reproduce occasionally in an area, but which do not form self-replacing populations, and which rely 
on repeated introductions for their persistence (includes taxa labelled in the literature as ‘waifs’, ‘transients’, ‘occasional escapes’ and 
‘persisting after cultivation’, and corresponds to De Candolle’s (1855, p. 643) usage of the term ‘adventive’2).
Naturalized plants
Alien plants that reproduce consistently (cf. casual alien plants) and sustain populations over many life cycles without direct intervention by 
humans (or in spite of human intervention); they often recruit offspring freely, usually close to adult plants, and do not necessarily invade 
natural, seminatural or human-made ecosystems.
Invasive plants3
Naturalized plants that produce reproductive offspring, often in very large numbers, at considerable distances from parent plants 
(approximate scales: > 100 m; < 50 years for taxa spreading by seeds and other propagules4; > 6 m/3 years for taxa spreading by roots, 
rhizomes, stolons, or creeping stems), and thus have the potential to spread over a considerable area.
Weeds
Plants (not necessarily alien) that grow in sites where they are not wanted and which usually have detectable economic or environmental 
effec...
