warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.13880
Type: PDF
Pattern: exit|lose|entry|RCA\s*(>|<|≥)|consecutive|AUC|defin (249 matches in 138487 chars)

--- Content ---

25: 
 
1 
The Software Complexity of Nations 
Sándor Juhásza,b,c,d, Johannes Wachsb,c,d*, Jermain Kaminskie, César A. Hidalgof,g,h 
 
a Corvinus Institute for Advanced Studies, Corvinus University of Budapest 
b Institute for Data Analytics and Information Systems, Corvinus University of Budapest, Hungary 
c Centre for Economic and Regional Studies, ELTE, Budapest, Hungary 
d Complexity Science Hub, Vienna, Austria 
e School of Business and Economics, Maastricht University, Netherlands 
f Center for Collective Learning, IAST, Toulouse School of Economics, University of Toulouse Capitole, France 
g Center for Collective Learning, CIAS, Corvinus University of Budapest, Hungary 
h Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester, United Kingdom 
*Corresponding author: johannes.wachs@uni-corvinus.hu 
 
Abstract 
Despite the growing importance of the digital sector, research on economic complexity and its 
implications continues to rely mostly on administrative records—e.g. data on exports, patents, and 
employment—that have blind spots when it comes to the digital economy. In this paper we use 
data on the geography of programming languages used in open-source software to extend 
economic complexity ideas to the digital economy. We estimate a country’s software economic 
complexity index (ECIsoftware) and show that it complements the ability of measures of 
complexity based on trade, patents, and research to account for international differences in GDP 
per capita, income inequality, and emissions. We also show that open-source software follows the 
principle of relatedness, meaning that a country’s entries and exits in programming languages are 
partly explained by its current pattern of specialization. Together, these findings help extend 
economic complexity ideas and their policy implications to the digital economy. 
 
Acknowledgements 
César A. Hidalgo acknowledges funding by the European Union project 101086712-LearnData-
HORIZON-WIDERA-2022-TALENTS-01 financed by European Research Executive Agency 
(REA) (https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101086712), IAST funding from the French National 
Research Agency (ANR) under grant ANR-17-EURE-0010 (Inv...
--
2803:...łodowska-Curie Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (SUPPED, grant number 101062606). 
Johannes Wachs acknowledges support from the Hungarian National Scientific Fund (OTKA FK 
145960). Jermain Kaminski acknowledges the support of the Dutch Research Council (NWO) 
through the Starter Grant. The authors would like to thank Viktor Stojkoski for support in the 
multidimensional estimates of economic complexity and the econometric models. César A. 
Hidalgo is a founder of Datawheel LLC and a creator of the Observatory of Economic Complexity 
(oec.world). 
 

 
 
2 
1. 
Introduction 
The study of economic complexity has predominantly relied on administrative records, such as 
international trade data (Hidalgo et al., 2007; Hidalgo and Hausmann, 2009), patent filings 
(Balland and Rigby, 2017; Kogler et al., 2013), and employment statistics (Jara-Figueroa et al., 
2018; Neffke and Henning, 2013), that while valuable, struggle to capture the importance of the 
digital economy. This “dark matter” (Greenstein and Nagle, 2014) is important because software 
capabilities—which are human capital intensive—represent a mobile and transmissible source of 
economic complexity that is relevant for policy efforts focused on increasing the complexity of 
economies (Hidalgo, 2023). Yet, despite this evident need, internationally comparable estimates 
of software‐related economic complexity remain limited. 
 
Economic complexity refers to the structure and breadth of productive capabilities embedded or 
implicit in an economy’s industries, products, or workforce (Hidalgo & Hausmann, 2009, 
Hausmann et al. 2014, Hidalgo 2021). Methodologically, its modeled using two key concepts: the 
economic complexity index (ECI) and the idea of relatedness.  
 
The economic complexity index (ECI)  provides a mean to estimate the combined presence of an 
economy’s capabilities without having to define them (Hidalgo and Stojkoski, 2025). It is often 
used to anticipate macroeconomic outcomes, such as long-term economic growth (Hidalgo and 
Hausmann 2009, Domini 2022, Chavez et al. 2017, Stojkoski et al. 2023), since economies 
endowed with diverse capabilities can recombine them into more complex and highervalue added 
products (Hidalgo and Stojkoski, 2025). Relatedness asserts that regions an...
--
5253:...et al. 2011, Neffke et al. 2013, Hausmann et al. 2014, 

 
 
3 
Hidalgo et al., 2018, Hidalgo, 2021, Balland et al. 2022). For instance, a country with expertise in 
data analytics and high-performance computing is more likely to expand into fields that build upon 
that foundation, such as artificial intelligence, than countries lacking these complementary 
specializations. 
 
While economic complexity methods have expanded to include trade, patents, employment, and 
research publication data, their application to the digital sector remains limited. Software 
capabilities are only partially visible in these metrics and digital capabilities are insufficiently 
expressed in physical product data (Rahmati et al., 2021; Stojkoski et al., 2024). Code crosses 
borders through cloud services, downloa...
--
7197:...te large returns 

 
 
4 
(Gortmaker, 2025). As it is known for complex and innovative activities (Audretsch and Feldman, 
1996; Balland et al., 2020), OSS development is human capital-intensive geographically 
concentrated (Wachs et al., 2022), and open to international collaboration (Goldbeck, 2025). This 
suggests software capabilities may follow spatial patterns distinct from traditional complexity 
metrics. 
 
Taken together, the growing importance of the digital economy, the key role that open-source 
software plays in it, and the remaining open questions about the geography of software capabilities, 
represent a critical gap in economic complexity research. Moreover, it remains unclear whether 
the “complexity” of the digital economy substitutes or complements traditional complexity 
metrics.  In this paper, we address these gaps by exploring the question:  Do economic complexity 
measures based on the geography of open-source software production correlate with 
macroeconomic indicators like GDP per capita, inequality, and emissions, complementing 
complexity measures based on trade, research, and patents?  
 
In this study, we use data on the geographic distribution of OSS projects hosted on GitHub to 
generate a national-level software economic complexity index (ECIsoftware). Our main specification 
constructs ECIsoftware from clusters of programming languages frequently used together in 
repositories. The cluster-based measure summarizes the diver...
--
[224 more matches not shown]
