URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.02942
Type: PDF
Pattern: AUC|area under|exit|central|core (26 matches in 131222 chars)

--- Content ---

227:Evaluating the principle of relatedness: Estimation,
drivers and implications for policy
Yang Li1,* and Frank Neﬀke2,1,**
1Center for International Development, Harvard University - 79 JFK street, 02138 Cambridge MA, USA
2Complexity Science Hub Vienna - Josefstädter Straße 39, 1080 Vienna, Austria
*Yang_Li@hks.harvard.edu
**Frank_Neffke@hks.harvard.edu
March 30, 2023
Abstract
A growing body of research documents that the size and growth of an industry in a place
depends on how...
--
17968:...need to determine at which level of aggregation we capture
economies of scope.
The D&B data allow us to identify the industrial portfolios of four types of productive units:
establishments, ﬁrms, regions and countries.6 As a regional unit, we use US Core-Based Statistical
Areas (CBSAs, i.e., metropolitan and micropolitan areas, henceforth “cities”).
As we move from establishments to ﬁrms, cities and countries, industrial portfolios start
reﬂecting a widening range of economies of scope. As a consequ...
--
34691:... of speciﬁcations in terms of predicting employment and employment growth. Hidalgo et al.’s
speciﬁcation performs only marginally worse, as long as it uses city colocation information to
calculate relatedness.
5
Inside the principle of relatedness
A core aspect of each empirical speciﬁcation is its relatedness matrix. These matrices depend
somewhat on technical details, such as normalizations and proximity metrics (see Fig. F.1 of
Appendix F), but the most pronounced diﬀerences are due to diﬀerences...
--
39917:... consists of easily separable communities. It
is deﬁned as the fraction of ties that form between industries belonging to the same community,
minus the fraction of such ties that we would have expected, had links formed at random. A
high modularity score thus means that most links form between industries in the same community,
as opposed to across communities, i.e., that the industry space is composed of distinct, well-
delineated clusters.12 The eﬀective number of communities is a so-called Hill nu...
--
40611:...he truncated networks of Figs I.1 and
I.2, not of the full relatedness matrices. To calculate modularity, we rely on the Louvain algorithm (Blondel et al.,
2008) to compute the best community division and then calculate the corresponding modularity scores. The random
benchmark used in these calculations preserves node degrees, but randomly rewires connections.
15

.4
.5
.6
.7
.8
modularity
6
8
10
12
14
16
effective # communities
Establishment
Firm
City
Country
Binary
.4
.5
.6
.7
.8
modularity
6
8
10...
--
47762:...shments and an over 2-fold increase in ﬁrms. In cities
and countries, the link between co-occurrence patterns and labor linkages is much weaker, lifting
co-occurrences by just 4% and 11%. This suggests that human-capital based economies of scope
are core to how industries are combined in establishments and ﬁrms, but labor market externalities
are much less important for how industries co-agglomerate in cities and countries. Finally, although
value-chain linkages are always statistically signiﬁcant, ...
--
54463:...based activities may be attracted
by the same geological conditions or their presence may be betrayed by the presence of downstream
industries. Similarly government services will locate in predictable locations such as regional
capitals or following central place theory (Christaller, 1933). However, such explanations align
poorly with the leading explanation for the principle of relatedness, namely, that the reason why we
observe related diversiﬁcation is that related industries share similar capabilit...
--
61284:...ndustries, regions
can economize on capabilities, while beneﬁting from the barriers to entry that characterize these
industries.
However, this approach has several drawbacks. First, because most capabilities are hard to
observe, determining the complexity of an industry is not straightforward. Balland et al. (2019) and
Rigby et al. (2022) rely on the so-called economic complexity index (ECI, Hidalgo and Hausmann,
2009), which infers complexity from which cities host which industries. Under certain assumptions,
the ECI ranks industries by the technological sophistication they require (Schetter, 2019; Yildirim,
2021). However, Mealy et al. (2019) show that, more generally, the ECI can be interpreted as
the best one-dimensional representation of a “location space”, a network that links locations that
host related industries. This means that, by construction, low complexity regions will be close
to low complexity industries, and high complexity regions to high complexity industries. As a
23

consequence, the two axes on which the policy framework in Balland et al. (2019) is based –
relatedness and complexity – are not independent. Finally, McNerney et al. (2021) show that the
ECI can also be regarded as a city’s position along a long-run direction of transformation that is
consistent with the short-run diversiﬁcation patterns described by the principle of relatedness. This
debate shows that the interpretation of complexity as a measure of desirability needs to be qualiﬁed.
One solution is to not overly rely on the ECI when determining the desirability of industries.
For instance, Hidalgo (2022) argues that the desirability of an industry depends on policy priorities.
Although these priorities may include productivity and employment growth – which are related
to complexity – they may also reﬂect other objectives, such as reducing inequality or a region’s
carbon footprint. Furthermore, Hausmann and Klinger (2009) propose combining the ECI with
information on an economy’s productivity to determine whether this productivity fully reﬂects the
complexity of the economy’s industrial base. If productivity falls short of what would be expected
based on the economy’s ECI, there should be scope for raising productivity without diversifying into
new activities. In this case, policy should focus on increa...
--
80293:...1965). Trade liberalisation and “revealed” comparative advantage 1. The manchester
school, 33(2):99–123.
Balland, P.-A., Boschma, R., Crespo, J., and Rigby, D. L. (2019). Smart specialization policy in
the european union: relatedness, knowledge complexity and regional diversiﬁcation. Regional
Studies, 53(9):1252–1268.
Balland, P.-A., Jara-Figueroa, C., Petralia, S. G., Steĳn, M. P., Rigby, D. L., and Hidalgo, C. A.
(2020). Complex economic activities concentrate in large cities. Nature Human Behavio...
--
81864:...ler, W. (1933). Die zentralen Orte in Suddeutschland: Eine okonomisch-geographische
Untersuchung uber die Gesetzmassigkeit der Verbreitung und Entwicklung der Siedlungen mit
stadtischen Funktionen. Gustav Fisher.
Coﬀano, M. and Foray, D. (2014). The centrality of entrepreneurial discovery in building and
implementing a smart specialisation strategy. The centrality of entrepreneurial discovery in
building and implementing a Smart Specialisation Strategy, pages 33–50.
29

Content, J. and Frenken, K. (201...
--
[6 more matches not shown]
