URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.01046
Type: PDF
Pattern: segregat|integrat|Zenodo|Availability|Competing|OpenAlex|citation network (18 matches in 85738 chars)

--- Content ---

10:Epistemic integration and social segregation of AI
in neuroscience
Sylvain Fontaine1*, Floriana Gargiulo1, Michel Dubois1,
Paola Tubaro2
1GEMASS, CNRS-Sorbonne Universit´e, 59-61 rue Pouchet, 75017 Paris,
France.
2CREST, CNRS-IPP, 5 avenue Henry Le Chatelier, 9...
--
1099:...amely the penetration of AI into a specific field of
research. Taking neuroscience as a case study, we conduct a scientometric analysis
of the development of AI in this field. We especially study the temporal egocentric
citation network around the articles included in this literature, their represented
journals and their authors linked together by a temporal collaboration network.
We find that AI is driving the constitution of a particular disciplinary...
--
5793:...d also the main concepts mobilized
in this paper, we detail in Section 3 the building of some relational structures and
some metrics given by the corpus that will be analyzed afterwards, namely its tempo-
ral egocentric citation network (composed of bibliographical references and citations
of each paper), its peer-reviewed journals, and its temporal collaboration network,
featured with the disciplinary profiles of the involved scientists.
In Sections 4.1 and 4.2, we identify within the citation network the disciplines
that are shaping the AI research in neuroscience, and the extent to which they differ
from those that are characterizing other neuroscience’s subfields unrelated to AI. We
especially show that some disci...
--
6911:...that
AI research is building itself as a subfield (or specialty) inside neuroscience, which
draws upon a disciplinary basis that is different from the other neuroscience subfields.
We also confirm this partial cognitive integration in Section 4.3, which reveals the
spreading of AI in almost all the journals of the database, but with different patterns of
promotion of such research. In particular, we show that the journals that are publishing
a ...
--
16235:...lication date and publisher (F¨arber,
2019). These metadata are embedded as strings or numerical identifiers in a set of
dump files linked together by link files, all of them being available on the data deposit
platform Zenodo (F¨arber, 2020).
To build an exhaustive database of the neuroscience literature from MAG, we draw
upon a list of journals that we extracted from WOS, with the help of the database
SCImago Journal Rank (SJR). We choose t...
--
20117:...and red zones corresponds to the set P ∩AI in the main text, while the blue zone excluded from this
intersection represents the set P ∩AI. The green set P includes all papers added after the building of
the ego-centered citation network that are not published in neuroscience journal. Right: Cumulative
number Nc of publications in the two main subsets considered in this paper. The inset shows the
instantaneous part of AI-related publications in the whol...
--
20673:...em
After gathering the dataset under study, we build an exhaustive citation ecosystem
around neuroscience publications, as illustrated in Fig. 2. We use the general reference
link file of MAG – which is actually a giant citation network – for retrieving the
references and citations of our identified papers. We thus add such papers citing or
cited in those in our dataset, as long as they are published in a journal that belongs
to the WOS journals database – we conserve here 84% of the original citation network
centered on the neuroscience dataset P. The added papers could therefore be published
either in neuroscience publications, therefore in the set P, or in others such that
they join the set denoted by P, ie. the green bor...
--
32849:...es τobs, τsim, σ
and z are therefore reduced to scalars defined with only the two groups Q and Qi.
4 Results
4.1 Citation homogenisation of the AI research specialty with
general neuroscience
First of all we explore the integration of AI technologies and knowledge within
neuroscience through the dynamical interaction between the respective disciplinary
environment of the two fields – AI and neuroscience. We especially compare year by
year the b...
--
64802:... an exhaustive bibliometric database that aims to represent
at best neuroscience research between 1970 and 2019. This analysis relies on many
indicators.
First, we have conducted a comparative analysis of the egocentric citation networks
associated with respectively AI research and non-AI research within neuroscience.
We have shown that the sets of disciplines influencing respectively the AI-related
works and the non-AI ones tend to be similar over tim...
--
[6 more matches not shown]
