URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.08409
Type: PDF
Pattern: AUC|area under|ROC|precision (60 matches in 70066 chars)

--- Content ---

5885:...hem. We argue that this map 
captures implicit information about the skills, social networks, and institutions 
constraining the movement of scholars into different academic disciplines. We validate 
the predictive superiority of the research space by using Response Operator 
Characteristic curves (ROC curves) and show that the research space is a more accurate 
predictor of the future presence of an individual or organization in an academic field than 
citation based or knowledge flow science maps. 
 
Mapping Science through Knowledge Flows and Career Paths 
 
In recent decades bibliometricians,...
--
9172:...r field. In spirit, the clickstream map is similar to the 
networks created from co-citations or bibliographic coupling because it also focuses on 
knowledge flows. Yet since online searches are a more common expression of interest in 
a topic than a formal citation (the latter requires the costly process of publication), efforts 
like clickstream help leverage new datasets that are more dynamic than those based on 
citations. 
 
But what are these science maps used for? A common use of knowledge flow maps is to 
categorize knowledge. The idea of knowledge categorization has a long tradition in 
...
--
13170:...ecause those with more than fifty publications tend to have many publications 
that are miss-assigned and are not theirs (see supplementary material for more details). 
Our filtered dataset contains 319,049 authors who have authored a total of 4,745,774 
publications indexed in 16,873 journals and proceedings between 1971 and 2014 (we 
note that in the introduction we have a smaller number of authors because there we 
considered only authors with at least ten papers that have received one citation). 
 
We assign each publication to a research category based on the journal in which it was 
publish...
--
18945:...oximity among 
“Crustaceans” and “Marine Biology”, or “Environmental Protection” and “Water 
Treatment” in the research space is high, while the volume of citations among both of 
these pairs of fields in the UCSD science map is low. Conversely, “Cross Disciplinary 
Studies” with “Ethics”, or “Electrochemical Development” and “Metallurgy” are pairs of 
fields that often cite each other, but share a relatively small number of co-authors. This 
orthogonally between both maps tells us that predictions made with either of them will 
likely be dissimilar since the UCSD map is capturing the relatedness...
--
23201:...
science map is detailed in the supplementary material of 3. 
 
Results 
 
We now use the methodology described above to predict the future presence of an 
individual, organization, or country, in a field that he or she has not participated in. To 
measure the accuracy of our predictions we use the area under the Response Operator 
Characteristics curve (ROC curve). The ROC curve plots the true positive rate of a 
predictive algorithm (in the y-axis) against its false positive rate (x-axis). A random 
prediction, having the same rate of true positives and false positives, produces a ROC 
curve with an area of 0.5, so values between 0.5 and 1 represent the accuracy of the 
predictive method. The ROC curve is a standard statistic used to measure the accuracy of 
a predictive method and is related to the Mann-Whitney U-test, which measures the 
probability that a true positive is ranked above a false positive. 
 
To make our predictions using the research space we construct our proximity matrix ...
--
25295:...om intermediate 
to developed, respectively. For individuals we only look at transitions from inactive to 
active, since the nascent and intermediate levels do not make sense for individuals given 
their limited output (compared to organizations and countries). The distributions of areas 
under the ROC curve obtained for each transition and method are shown using boxplots 
(where the horizontal bar is the median, the red circle is the mean, the box contains the 
interquartile range, and the whiskers encompass more than 96% of the sample). These 
boxplots describe the distribution for the areas under the ROC curve obtained, 
respectively, for 4,850 individuals 730 organizations (including research institutions), and 
77 countries. The inclusion criteria involved all entities satisfying the inequality 
!!" !
!
!!!!!∆!
!!!!
≥!∆! 
with B = 3 for individuals, and B = 30 for countries and organizations. The inequality 
helps us focus on the most productive individuals, organizations, and countries. 
 
 

!
15!
 
 
Figure 4: The predictive power of the Research Space (RS) versus the UCSD science map. For each 
entity, a ROC curve is calculated across fields for the given transition. Each boxplot represents the 
distribution of AUCs. Higher values indicate higher predictive accuracy. 
 
We now focus on transitions from inactive to active (from having no papers in the field 
(RCAsf=0) to having some (RCAsf>0)). For both individuals (Figure 3 a) and organizations 
(Figure 3 b) we find that the predictions made using the research space are significantly 
more accurate than the predictions made using the UCSD science map. The average area 
under the ROC curve for individuals (Figure 3 a) is 0.8963 for the research space and 
0.8034 for the UCSD science map. This difference is highly statistically significant 
(ANOVA p-value<0.001). For organizations (Figure 3 b), the averaged accuracy is lower, 
but the research space is also significantly more accurate than the UCSD science map 
when it comes to predicting the future presence of a organization in a research field 
(averages 
are 
AUCresearch_space=0.7148, 
AUCUCSD_science_map=0.6873, 
ANOVA 
p-
value<0.001). For countries, however, both methods are equally accurate (Figure 3 c 
averages are AUCresearch_space=0.6816, AUCUCSD_science_map =0.6819, ANOVA p-
value>0.1), indicating that the increase in accuracy observed for the resea...
--
[45 more matches not shown]
