URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.2090
Type: PDF
Pattern: core|periphery|diversif|jump (24 matches in 25541 chars)

--- Content ---

866:...ns and skills needed to make such new products are more 
easily adapted from some products than others. We study the network of relatedness 
between products, or ‘product space’, finding that most upscale products are located in 
a densely connected core while lower income products occupy a less connected 
periphery. We show that countries tend to move to goods close to those they are 
currently specialized in, allowing nations located in more connected parts of the 
product space to upgrade their exports basket more quickly. Most countries can reach 
the core only if they “jump” over empirically infrequent distances in the product space. 
This may help explain why poor countries have trouble developing more competitive 
exports, failing to converge to the income levels of rich countries. 
 
 

 
2
Does the type of product ...
--
6956:...ts are part of a single network we determined the underlying maximum spanning 
tree (see Supplementary Material) and superposed on it the links with a proximity larger 
than 0.55 (Fig 1B).  
 
Far from homogenous, the product space appears to have a core-periphery structure (Fig 
1B). The core is formed by metal products, machinery and chemicals while the periphery 
is formed by the rest of the product classes. The products in the top of the periphery 
belong to fishing, animal, tropical and cereal agriculture. To the left there is a strong 
peripheral cluster formed by garments and another one belonging to textiles, followed by 
a second animal agriculture cluster. At the bottom of the network w...
--
8657:... 

 
4
 
We first explore regional variations in the pattern of specialization for four regions in the 
product space (Fig 2). Products exported by a region with RCA greater than 1, are 
marked with black squares. Industrialized countries occupy the core, specialized in a set 
of closely-related products such as machinery, metal products and chemicals. They also 
have a considerable participation in more peripheral products such as textiles, forest 
products and animal agriculture. East-Asian countries have developed RCA in a few 
distinct clusters along the periphery of the core taking control of the garments, electronics 
and textile clusters. Latin America and the Caribbean are further out in the periphery and 
participate in mining, all types of agriculture and the garments sector. Finally sub-
Saharan Africa exports ver...
--
[12 more matches not shown]
