URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.00881
Type: PDF
Pattern: AUC (18 matches in 58953 chars)

--- Content ---

19331:...x=80, is the fraction of
edges contributed by all the nodes in and below the 80s
percentile of degrees.
Figure 6. Receiver operating characteristic curve
(ROC) for computing the Area under the Curve
(AUC). Random Predictions get the result right in half
of the cases, therefore their ROC curve is a diagonal with
an AUC=0.5 (orange). A model that has learned some
properties of the dataset has a AUC > 0.5 (blue).
C.
Problem Formulation: Predictions in an
exponentially growing semantic network
The concrete task is to predict which two nodes vi
with degrees d(vi) ≤c that do not share an edge in
th...
--
20754:...s. The ROC curve is created by plot-
ting the true positive rate against the false positive
rate at various threshold settings. Our evaluation
metric is the commonly used metric Area under the
Curve (AUC) of the ROC curve.
One advantage
of AUC over mean-square-error is its independence
of the data distribution.
Speciﬁcally, in our case,
where the two classes are highly asymmetrically dis-
tributed (with only about 1-3% of newly connected
2...
--
21246:...on of the
fastest growing links, which one could denote as trend pre-
diction.

6
Figure 7. The Science4Cast benchmark: Link predictions in an exponentially growing semantic network.
Here we show the AUC values for diﬀerent models that use machine learning techniques (ML), hand-crafted network
features (NF) or a combination thereof. The left plot shows results for the prediction of a single new link ...
--
21795:...e, with cutoﬀvalues c = [0, 5, 25]. We sort the models by the the results for the task (w = 1, δ = 3, c = 0),
which was the task in the Science4Cast competition. Data points that are not shown have a AUC below 0.6 or are
not computed due to computational costs. Note that the prediction of new triple edges can be performed nearly
determinstically. It will be interesting to understand the origin of this quasi-deterministic pattern in AI research.
edges), and the distribution changing over time, the
AUC provides a meaningful and interpretation. For
perfect predictions, AUC=1, while random predic-
tions give AUC=0.5. It gives the percentage that a
random true element is higher ranked than a random
false one.
IV.
AI-BASED SOLUTIONS
We now demonstrate how to solve this task with
numerous diﬀerent methods, from...
--
[8 more matches not shown]
