URL: https://peerj.com/articles/cs-119.pdf
Type: PDF
Pattern: precision|recall|F-?measure|accuracy|years (21 matches in 70818 chars)

--- Content ---

10008:...used for the study, present the results and discuss their implications. Finally, we
summarize the main conclusions and outline future directions of research.
RELATED WORK
Topic detection and tracking is a task that has drawn much attention in recent years
and has been applied to a variety of scenarios, such as social networks (Cataldi, Di Caro
& Schifanella, 2010; Mathioudakis & Koudas, 2010), blogs (Gruhl et al., 2004; Oka, Abe &
Kato, 2006), emails (Morinaga & Yamanishi, 2004) and scientific litera...
--
19128:...ge-scale taxonomies requires
a sizable number of experts and it is an expensive and time-consuming process. Hence,
they are seldom updated and grow obsolete very quickly. For example, the 2012 version of
the ACM classification was finalized fourteen years after the previous version. In addition,
these taxonomies are very coarse-grained and usually contain general fields rather than
fine-grained research topics.
We addressed these issues by characterizing our topics according to the Computer
Science O...
--
22883:...butant topic we
Salatino et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.119
7/28

extracted the portion of topic network containing its n most co-occurring topics from the
year of debut until nowadays and analysed their activity in the five years preceding the year
of debut. Since we want to analyse how the dimension of these subgraphs influences the
results, we tested different values of n (20, 40, and 60). For example, if a topic A made its
debut in 2003, the portion of network containing ...
--
23561:...sis within the decade 2000–2010.
In the previous study (Salatino & Motta, 2016), we selected 50 established topics and
assigned a random year of analysis to each of them. For this study, we randomly assigned
each established topic to two consecutive years within the decade 2000–2010, with the
consequence of doubling the control group, thus reducing noise and smoothing the
resulting measures.
In brief, the selection phase associates to each topic in the treatment and control groups
(also referred as input topics) a graph:
Gtopic = Gtopic
year−5 ∪Gtopic
year−4 ∪Gtopic
year−3 ∪Gtopic
year−2 ∪Gtopic
year−1.
(1)
This graph corresponds to the co-occurrence network of a debutant topic in the five years
prior to its emergence (or year of analysis for non-debutant topics). In particular, each
year corresponds to the sub-graphs:
Gtopic
year−i = (V topic
year−i,Etopic
year−i)
(2)
in which V topic
year−i is the set of most co-occurring topics in a year...
--
25555:... nodes are connected to one another and is
employed for modelling small groups of entities close to each other (Luce & Perry, 1949).
To study the dynamics preceding the debut of each topic, we analyse the evolution of
the same 3-clique in subsequent years. Figure 4 summarizes the process. Considering a
3-clique having nodes {A,B,C}, we quantify its collaboration index µ1 in a year by taking
Salatino et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.119
8/28

Wa
Wb
Wc
Wab
Wac
Wbc
A
B
C
Figure 3
...
--
28539:... of collaborations are decreasing.
Finally, the collaboration pace of each sub-graph is measured by computing the mean
of all slopes associated with the 3-cliques.
To summarize, for each input topic we select a subgraph of related topics in the five
years preceding the year of debut (or analysis for topics in the control group). We then
extract the 3-cliques and associate each of them with a vector representing the evolution of
their pace of collaboration. The trend of each clique is computed as the ...
--
32920:...f H2 and decrease of H1.
To summarize, the triad-based method receives the same input as the clique-based
method. For each of the five subgraphs associated to a topic, we perform the triad
census obtaining the different frequencies, Hi, in different years. We then analyse them
diachronically to quantify the increase in density.
RESULTS
In this section we report the results obtained by analysing the debutant and control groups
using the previously discussed methods. We will describe:
• The preliminary...
--
36008:...n. However, the ranges
of values overlap, making it harder to assess if a certain sub-group is incubating a novel
topic. The same applies to AM-CF. HM-CF performs better and, even if the values slightly
overlap when averaging the pace over different years, they do not when considering single
years. Indeed, analysing the two ranges separately in 2001 and 2006 (see Fig. 9), we can
see that the overall collaboration paces of the debutant topics (DB) are always significantly
higher than the control group (NDB).
With the null hypothesis: ‘‘The dif...
--
40697:...how the average
yearly collaboration pace when considering the 20, 40 and 60 most co-occurring topics.
In all cases the collaboration pace for the debutant topics is higher than the one for the
control group. We can also notice that in the last five years the overall pace of collaboration
suffered a fall for both debutant and non-debutant topics. This may be due to the fact that
the topic network became denser and noisier in the final years of the interval. Moreover,
the most recent debutant topics often have an underdeveloped network of co-occurrences,
which may result in a suboptimal selection of the group of topics to be analysed in the
previous years. Therefore, simply selecting th...
--
[9 more matches not shown]
