URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.05352
Type: PDF
Pattern: AUC|survival|exit|central|core (104 matches in 83938 chars)

--- Content ---

1888:...
data shows that countries that enter more unrelated activities experience a small but 
significant increase in future economic growth, compared to countries with a similar 
level of income, human capital, capital stock per worker, and economic complexity.  
 
Keywords: relatedness, product space, unrelated diversification, economic 
complexity, new export products, economic growth 
 

Pinheiro, Alshamsi, Hartmann, Boschma and Hidalgo (2018) 
 
 
2 
Introduction 
A well-established fact in the literature on international and regional economic 
development is that countries (Hidalgo, Kling...
--
4626:...en they are 
at an intermediate level of economic development, and also when they have a 
relatively high level of human capital. This is true when we measure a country’s level 
of development using GDP per capita, export diversity, or economic complexity. In 
fact, the level of relatedness of new economic activities follows a U-shaped curve, 
with countries at both low and high levels of development entering primarily related 
activities, and countries with an intermediate level of economic develop...
--
5236:...tage of development of a country is linked with the type of related activity 
development. 
Finally, we ask whether countries entering more unrelated activities grow faster, after 
controlling for their initial level of GDP per capita, economic complexity, and human 
capital. We find that countries entering more unrelated activities experience a small 
but significant increase in their subsequent growth performance of about 0.5% per 
annum. In other words, our findings show that deviations from the ...
--
7974:...ies and cities develop new technologies related to existing local 
technologies. 
But relatedness is not the only factor shaping the path dependencies of economies. A 
key driving force behind the distinctiveness of regional trajectories is the complexity 
of knowledge (Kogut & Zander, 2003). Fleming and Sorenson (2001) define the 
complexity of a technology in terms of the number of components and the 
interdependence between those components. Hidalgo and Hausmann (2009) derive a 
formula for the complexity — or knowledge intensity — of products and places by 
defining knowledge intense places as those that produce knowledge intense activities, 
and knowledge intense activities as those produced by knowledge intense places. This 
circular definition is mathematically solvable using the linear algebra concept of 
eigenvectors. Yet, the more colloquial definition of knowledge complexity is still tied 
to the idea that complexity is reflected in a wide range of capabilities. These complex 
products tend to be produced by relatively few knowledge intense countries, and 
hence, can support higher wages for the workers employed in these industries 
(Hartmann, Guevara, Jara-Figueroa, Aristarán, & Hidalgo, 2017; Hausmann et al., 
2014; Hidalgo, 2015; Hidalgo & Hausmann, 2009). 
Recently, these measures of complexity have also been extended to the production of 
technology. Balland and Rigby (2016) found huge variations in the complexity of 
knowledge produced across U.S. cities (i.e. few metropolitan areas produce the most 
complex technologies, while many cities produce the least complex ones) which also 
correlates highly with the long-run economic performance of cities. 
So, in...
--
12420:...ive degree of relatedness of a new economic 
activity, and investigating whether countries that succeed in entering more unrelated 
activities also experience higher economic growth, after controlling for their initial 
GDP per capita, economic complexity, capital stock per worker, and human capital. 
Materials and Methods 
Data 
We use international trade data from the MIT’s Observatory of Economic 
Complexity (atlas.media.mit.edu). We use the SITC-4 rev 2 product classification, 
since it provides...
--
[92 more matches not shown]
