URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1306.0158
Type: PDF
Pattern: precision|recall|AUC|F1|early|first .* tweets|communities (57 matches in 30412 chars)

--- Content ---

533:...aﬀect diﬀusion? Recent studies suggest that the answer depends on the
type of contagion. Complex contagions, unlike infectious diseases (simple contagions), are aﬀected by
social reinforcement and homophily. Hence, the spread within highly clustered communities is enhanced,
while diﬀusion across communities is hampered. A common hypothesis is that memes and behaviors are
complex contagions. We show that, while most memes indeed spread like complex contagions, a few viral
memes spread across many communities, like diseases. We demonstrate that the future popularity of a
meme can be predicted by quantifying its early spreading pattern in terms of community concentration.
The more communities a meme permeates, the more viral it is. We present a practical method to translate
data about community structure into predictive knowledge about what information will spread widely.
This connection contributes to our understanding in computational ...
--
2727:...diseases and apply epidemic models [3, 4]. However, recent studies demonstrate
that diseases and behaviors spread diﬀerently; they have therefore been referred to as simple versus complex
contagions, respectively [9,29].
Here we propose that network communities [30–32]—strongly clustered groups of people—provide a
unique vantage point to the challenge of predicting viral memes. We show that (i) communities allow us
to estimate how much the spreading pattern of a meme deviates from that of infectious diseases; (ii) viral
memes tend to spread like epidemics; and ﬁnally (iii) we can predict the virality of memes based on early
spreading patterns in terms of community structure. We employ the popularity of a meme as an indicator
of its virality; viral memes appear in a large number of messages and are adopted by many people.
Community structure has been shown to aﬀect information diﬀusion, including global cascades [33,34],
the speed of propagation [35], and the activity of individuals [36, 37]. One straight-forward eﬀect is that
communities are thought to be able to cripple the global spread because they act as traps for random ﬂows
[35,36] (Fig. 1(A)). Yet, the causes and consequences of the trapping eﬀect have not been fully understood,
particularly when structural trapping is combin...
--
4131:... to social reinforcement: each additional exposure signiﬁcantly
increases the chance of adoption. Although the notion is not new [38], it was only recently conﬁrmed in
a controlled experiment [9]. A few concentrated adoptions inside highly clustered communities can induce
many multiple exposures (Fig. 1(B)). The adoption of memes within communities may also be aﬀected by
homophily, according to which social relationships are more likely to form between similar people [39, 40].
Communities capture homophily as people sharing similar characteristics naturally establish more edges
among them. Thus we expect similar tastes among community members, making people more susceptible to
2

memes from peers in the same community (Fig. 1(C)). Straightforward examples of homophilous communities
are those formed around language or culture (Fig. 1(D,E)); people are much more likely to propagate messages
written in their mother tongue.
Separating social contagion and homophily is diﬃcult [41, 42], and we
interpret complex contagion broadly to include homophily; we focus on how both social reinforcement and
homophily eﬀects collectively boost the trapping of memes within dense communities, not on the distinctions
between them.
To examine and quantify the spreading patterns of memes, we analyze a dataset collected from Twitter,
a micro-blogging platform that allows millions of people to broadcast short messages (‘tweets’). People can
...
--
[43 more matches not shown]
